
--- Page 1 ---
ConRFT: A Reinforced Fine-tuning Method for
VLA Models via Consistency Policy
Yuhui Chen12, Shuai Tian12, Shugao Liu12, Yingting Zhou12, Haoran Li12B, and Dongbin Zhao12B
1SKL-MAIS, Institute of Automation, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China
2School of Artificial Intelligence, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China
Email: {chenyuhui2022, tianshuai2023, liushugao2023, zhouyingting2025, lihaoran2015, dongbin.zhao}@ia.ac.cn
Abstract—Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models have shown
substantial potential in real-world robotic manipulation. How-
ever, fine-tuning these models through supervised learning strug-
gles to achieve robust performance due to limited, inconsistent
demonstrations, especially in contact-rich environments. In this
paper, we propose a reinforced fine-tuning approach for VLA
models, named ConRFT, which consists of offline and online
fine-tuning with a unified consistency-based training objective,
to address these challenges. In the offline stage, our method
integrates behavior cloning and Q-learning to effectively extract
policy from a small set of demonstrations and stabilize value
estimating. In the online stage, the VLA model is further fine-
tuned via consistency policy, with human interventions to ensure
safe exploration and high sample efficiency. We evaluate our
approach on eight diverse real-world manipulation tasks. It
achieves an average success rate of 96.3% within 45–90 minutes
of online fine-tuning, outperforming prior supervised methods
with a 144% improvement in success rate and 1.9x shorter
episode length. This work highlights the potential of integrating
reinforcement learning to enhance the performance of VLA
models for real-world robotic applications. Videos and code are
available at our project website https://cccedric.github.io/conrft/.
I. INTRODUCTION
Recent advancements in training generalist robotic policies
using Vision-Language-Action (VLA) models have demon-
strated remarkable capabilities in understanding and executing
various manipulation tasks. These successes are primarily at-
tributed to large-scale imitation-style pre-training and ground-
ing with robot actions [1, 2, 3]. While pre-trained policies
capture powerful representations, they often fall short when
handling the complexities of real-world scenarios [4]. Fine-
tuning with domain-specific data is essential to optimize model
performance for downstream tasks [3, 5]. While Supervised
Fine-Tuning (SFT) of the VLA model using human teleoper-
ation data remains the predominant adaptation approach, this
process faces significant challenges: the model’s performance
heavily relies on the quality and quantity of task-specific data.
However, these human-collected datasets may not consistently
provide optimal trajectories due to inherent issues such as sub-
optimal data and inconsistent action [6].
Significant progress in Large-Language-Models (LLMs) and
Vision-Language-Models (VLMs) have highlighted the value
of reinforcement learning as a powerful tool for bridging
the gap between policy capabilities and human preference
[7, 8, 9] or improving model reasoning [10]. In addition,
deploying reinforcement learning (RL) with task-specific re-
ward functions to learn from online interaction data is also
a promising direction [11, 12, 13]. However, extending these
insights to VLA models presents unique challenges because,
unlike LLMs, VLA models necessitate direct physical inter-
action in real-world robotic tasks. The safety and cost con-
straints of collecting data in contact-rich environments demand
high sample efficiency and risk-aware exploration, making a
straightforward implementation of RL infeasible. Recent work
has attempted to leverage RL to address the challenges faced in
SFT [6, 14], while these methods primarily focus on utilizing
RL for data augmentation or quality improvement rather
than directly optimizing VLA models through RL objectives.
This limits the policy’s ability to explore states out of the
demonstration dataset, thus undermining the potential benefits
of RL-based fine-tuning in real-world settings.
To leverage the benefits of RL-based techniques for effi-
ciently fine-tuning VLA models with online interaction data,
we propose a reinforced fine-tuning (RFT) approach consisting
of offline and online stages with a unified consistency-based
training objective. While this design is similar to offline-to-
online methods [15, 16, 17], we found that expert demonstra-
tions’ scarcity constrains their offline training performance.
Motivated by insights from CPQL [18], we propose a unified
training objective that integrates supervised learning with Q-
learning in the offline stage and further fine-tunes the VLA
model via consistency policy through online RL. During of-
fline training, our approach leverages prior demonstrations and
handles out-of-distribution (OOD) states, effectively extracting
the policy and value function before interacting with real-
world environments. In the subsequent online stage, we solve
two challenges of sample efficiency and real-world safety
requirements by exploiting task-specific rewards with CPQL
[18] under human interventions through Human-in-the-Loop
(HIL) learning [19, 20].
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
1) We present a Consistency-based Reinforced Fine-
Tuning (ConRFT) approach, a novel pipeline with the
unified training objective both for offline and online fine-
tuning.
2) By integrating offline RL with a consistency-based
behavior cloning (BC) loss, we propose Cal-ConRFT,
which focuses on extracting an efficient policy and value
function to provide a stable initialization with a small
set of demonstrations.
arXiv:2502.05450v2  [cs.RO]  14 Apr 2025


--- Page 2 ---
3) During online fine-tuning, we propose HIL-ConRFT,
which retains the same loss structure from the offline
stage for rapid policy adaption while leveraging human
interventions to ensure safe exploration and high sample
efficiency in real-world environments.
We evaluate our approach on eight real-world manipulation
tasks, demonstrating its ability to outperform state-of-the-art
(SOTA) methods. Our framework achieves an average success
rate of 96.3% after 45–90 minutes of online fine-tuning, show-
casing high sample efficiency. Additionally, it outperforms
SFT methods that are trained on either human data or RL
policy data, with an average success rate improvement of
144% and an episode length of 1.9x shorter.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Reinforced Fine-tuning for Large Models
RL has been widely adopted for fine-tuning LLMs and
VLMs. Early works have primarily focused on RL incorporat-
ing human feedback [7, 8, 9, 21, 22] by learning from human
preferences or by integrating task-specific rewards without
explicit human preference [11, 12, 13, 23]. While many of
these approaches employ on-policy algorithms (e.g., PPO [24])
to fine-tune pre-trained policies [12, 25, 26], they typically
demand large amounts of interaction data to achieve desirable
performance [27, 28]. While RL has demonstrated success in
many domains, it typically learns within self-generated syn-
thetic environments rather than real-world environments. This
gap prevents direct transfer for VLA models, which require
real-world interaction. Our work addresses this discrepancy
by developing RL frameworks tailored for efficient real-world
VLA fine-tuning.
B. Real-world RL Systems
Real-world robotic RL systems require algorithms that are
both sample-efficient in handling high-dimensional inputs and
flexible enough to accommodate practical considerations like
reward specification and environment resets [20]. Several pre-
vious methods have effectively demonstrated policy learning
directly in physical environments [29, 30, 31, 20], using both
off-policy [32, 33, 34, 35], on-policy [36, 37] methods, or
posing ”RL as supervised learning” [14, 38]. Despite this
progress, many real-world RL systems still demand prolonged
training sessions or require large amounts of interaction data
[39], which can be impractical and risk-prone in contact-rich
tasks. In contrast to previous methods that train from scratch,
our work focuses on utilizing pre-trained VLA models to
provide high-quality policy initialization. This approach ef-
fectively mitigates unnecessary exploratory behaviors in early
RL phases, thereby optimizing both policy learning efficiency
and operational safety in the training process.
C. Offline-to-online Methods
Offline-to-online RL aims to leverage offline datasets to
initialize a policy, which is then fine-tuned via online inter-
actions for improved sample efficiency [15]. Existing works
commonly adopt an offline pre-training stage followed by an
online fine-tuning stage [15, 40, 41, 16], mixing offline and
online data as training proceeds. This offline-to-online pipeline
is similar to our proposed two-stage fine-tuning approach that
exploits pre-collected data to bootstrap policy training and
then fine-tunes the policy in the real-world tasks [32]. Most
offline-to-online methods assume the availability of large-
scale, diverse datasets with sufficient state coverage [42, 43],
a condition rarely met in real-world deployments. We explore
leveraging pre-trained VLA models as the base policy to
enable sample-efficient policy refinement, achieving superior
fine-tuning performance even under stringent demonstration
data constraints.
III. PROBLEM SETUP AND PRELIMINARIES
We focus on fine-tuning a pre-trained VLA model for down-
stream tasks. Specifically, we assume access to a pre-trained
VLA model πϕpre, which encodes high-level representations
from both visual inputs (e.g., RGB images) and language
instructions. In supervised fine-tuning (SFT), we aim to adapt
ϕpre to ϕ on the target task using a small set of labeled
demonstrations while preserving the model’s general feature-
extraction capability. Formally, let τ = (s0, a0, . . . , sH) be a
trajectory for the target task, then the VLA model fine-tuning
aims to solve minϕ L(τ, ϕ) where L may be a negative log-
likelihood (NLL) or a mean-squared error (MSE) measuring
the discrepancy between the predicted actions and those in the
demonstration. This procedure allows us to effectively leverage
compressed knowledge in robotic tasks while steering the VLA
model to the downstream environment.
Since demonstrations are often limited, inconsistent, and
sub-optimal, preventing the policy from covering diverse
states, SFT struggles in real-world, contact-rich robotic tasks.
To address these issues, we formulate each robotic task as a
Markov Decision Process (MDP), where the goal of RL is to
find the optimal policy in the MDP, M = (S, A, P, r, ρ, γ),
where s ∈S denotes the state space and a ∈A denotes
the action space. P(s′|s, a) is the environmental transition
probabilities that depend on the system dynamics, and ρ(s)
denotes the initial state distribution. r(s, a) and γ ∈(0, 1) are
the reward function and the reward discount factor. The policy
π is estimated by maximizing the cumulative expected value
of the reward, denoted as V π(s) = Eπ[PH
t=0 γtr(st, at)|s0 =
s, at ∼π(st), st+1 ∼p(·|st, at)]. The Q-function of a given
policy π is denoted as Qπ(s, a) = Eπ[PH
t=0 γtr(st, at)|s0 =
s, a0 = a, st+1 ∼p(·|st, at)]. H represents the maximum
episode step of a trajectory. By coupling the VLA policy
with the learned Q-function, RFT allows the VLA model to
refine its behavior based on trial-and-error interactions and
task-specific feedback.
IV. METHOD
The proposed pipline ConRFT consists of two stages: offline
fine-tuning followed by online fine-tuning to optimize robotic
policies, as shown in Fig. 1. In the following sections, we
provide a detailed description of the two stages, with the
pipeline illustration in Appendix A.


--- Page 3 ---
Fig. 1: Overview of ConRFT. This figure illustrates the architecture of our reinforced fine-tuning approach for a pre-trained
VLA model, which comprises two stages: the offline Cal-ConRFT and the online HIL-ConRFT. Both stages use a unified
consistency-based training objective. During the offline stage, we only use pre-collected demonstrations for fine-tuning. During
the online stage, a human operator can intervene in the robot policy via teleoperation tools(e.g. a SpaceMouse). And we use
both pre-collected demonstrations, policy transitions, and human interventions for fine-tuning.
A. Stage I: Offline Fine-tuning with Cal-ConRFT
Since pre-trained VLA models often lack zero-shot gener-
alizability to novel robotic configurations, in the offline stage,
we focus on training the policy using a small, pre-collected
offline dataset (20–30 demonstrations) before transitioning to
online reinforcement learning. We initialize the policy with the
pre-trained VLA model for reinforcement learning, reducing
both the exploration burden and the overall online training
time. Considering the ability to utilize offline data effectively,
we choose the Calibrated Q-Learning (Cal-QL) [16] as our
base offline RL method since we want the Q-function to be
robust to out-of-distribution (OOD) actions. Specifically, Cal-
QL trains the Q-function on a pre-collected dataset by reducing
temporal difference (TD) error and an additional regularizer.
This regularizer penalizes Q-values for OOD actions when
they exceed the value of the reference policy V µ(s), while
compensating for this penalization on actions observed within
the offline dataset. The Cal-QL training objective for the critic
is given by:
Loffline
Q
(θ) =α(Es∼D,a∼π(·|s)[max(Qθ(s, a), V µ(s))]
−Es,a∼D[Qθ(s, a)])
+ 1
2E(s,a,s′)∼D[(Qθ(s, a) −BπQθ(s, a))2]
(1)
where Qθ is the learned Q-function parameterized by θ,
Qθ is the delayed target Q-function parameterized by θ.
BπQ(s, a) = r(s, a) + γEa′∼π(·|s′)(Q(s′, a′)) is the Bell-
man backup operator. α is a hyper-parameter to control the
conservative penalty. And D is the demo buffer that stores
demonstrations.
However, while Cal-QL is generally efficient at leveraging
offline datasets, it struggles to train an effective policy when
only small set of demonstrations (e.g., 20–30) are available.
In such cases, limited state coverage leads to poor value
estimates, making it difficult for the policy to generalize to
unseen states. By contrast, typical offline RL datasets are often
collected from multiple behavior policies, providing a broad
range of state coverage to reduce the distribution shift. Lacking
this breadth, the Cal-QL loss alone may not adequately guide
the learning process, resulting in poor performance.
To address this issue, we propose augmenting the offline
training process by incorporating a BC loss. The BC loss
directly minimizes the difference between the actions gener-
ated by the policy and those from the demonstrations. By
incorporating BC loss, we encourage the model to imitate
the behaviors from the demonstrations, providing additional
supervisory signals during the offline stage. This helps the
VLA model to learn a more effective policy and initialize a
stable Q function with few demonstrations, especially in the
case of contact-rich manipulation tasks where control precision
is critical.
Motivated by combining the BC loss with Q guidance under
a consistency-based objective [18], we introduce Cal-ConRFT
in the offline stage. This approach employs a consistency
policy as the action head for fine-tuning the VLA model,
addressing two key concerns: 1) it helps leverage inconsis-
tent and sub-optimal demonstrations that often arise in pre-
collected data, and 2) compared to diffusion-based action head,


--- Page 4 ---
Fig. 2: Overview of all real-world experimental tasks. The real-world tasks include picking and placing (a) banana, (b)
spoon, (d) and (f) bread, operating with (c) drawer and (e) toaster, assembling complex objects such as (g) chair wheel and
(h) Chinese Knot.
the consistency-based action head remains computationally
lightweight for efficient inference [18, 44, 45]. The consistency
policy is a diffusion-model-based policy [46] that learns to
map random actions sampled from the unit Gaussian to
generate actions drawn from the expert action distribution
conditioned on the current state. For the consistency policy,
we discretize the diffusion horizon [ϵ, K] into M sub-intervals
with boundaries k1 = ϵ ≤k2 ≤· · · ≤km = K and ϵ = 0.002.
Specifically, the VLA model with a consistency policy as the
action head is given by:
πψ(a|s) = fψ(ak, k|Eϕ(s))
(2)
where f denotes the consistency policy parameterized with
ψ, subscripts k denoted the diffusion step, ak ∼N(0, kI)
and Eϕ(s) denotes the encoded state of the pre-trained VLA
model parameterized with ϕ. The consistency-based training
objective for VLA model fine-tuning is given by:
Loffline
π
(ψ) = βLBC
π
+ ηLQ
π
(3)
where BC loss LBC
π
=
E(s,a)∼D,m∼U[1,M−1][d(fψ(a +
kmz, km|E(s)), a)], z
∼
N(0, I), d stands for the Eu-
clidean distance d(x, y) = ||x −y||2, and Q loss LQ
π
=
−Es∼D,a∼πψ[Q(s, a)]. β and η are two hyper-parameters to
balance the BC loss and Q loss. This combination enables
efficient policy learning and stable value estimation, even with
a small set of demonstrations, by aligning value estimates
with expert actions and improving policy performance during
offline training. Moreover, it provides a reliable initialization
for the online stage, facilitating safe and effective exploration.
B. Stage II: Online Fine-tuning with HIL-ConRFT
While the offline stage provides an initial policy from a
small set of demonstration data, its performance is limited
by the scope and quality of the pre-collected demonstrations.
Therefore, we have the online stage with HIL-ConRFT, where
the VLA model is further fine-tuned online via the consistency
policy through interacting with the real-world environment.
During online training process, the demo buffer D for offline
stage is remained. Furthermore, we have a replay buffer R to
store online data, then implement symmetric sampling [27],
whereby for each batch, we sample equally between these two
buffers to form each training batch. Since the VLA model
continuously gathers new transitions based on its current
policy, the data distribution naturally evolves with the policy.
This ongoing interaction reduces the distribution-shift problem
that the offline stage faces. As a result, we use a standard Q
loss for online critic updating:
Lonline
Q
(θ) = E(s,a,s′)∼(D∪R)[(Qθ(s, a) −BπQ(s, a))2] (4)
The consistency-based training objective for VLA model fine-
tuning is given by:
Lonline
π
(ψ) = βLBC
π
+ ηLQ
π
(5)
where BC loss LBC
π
= E(s,a)∼(D∪R),m∼U[1,M−1][d(fψ(a +
kmz, km|E(s)), a)], z
∼
N(0, I), d stands for the Eu-
clidean distance d(x, y) = ||x −y||2, and Q loss LQ
π
=
−Es∼(D∪R),a∼πψ[Q(s, a)]. Note that this objective closely
mirrors Equation 3 from the offline stage, enabling a quick
adaption to online fine-tuning.
Typically, we decrease the BC loss weight β while increas-
ing the Q loss weight η during the online stage, yet we keep the


--- Page 5 ---
Training
Time
(mins)
Success Rate (%)
Episode length
Task
SFT[47]
Cal-
ConRFT
HG-
DAgger[19]
PA-RL[14]
HIL-
ConRFT
SFT[47]
Cal-
ConRFT
HG-
DAgger[19]
PA-RL[14]
HIL-
ConRFT
Pick Banana
45
40
50
60 (+50%)
80 (+100%)
90 (+80%)
63.7
57.8
67.5 (0.9x)
56.1 (1.1x)
51.2 (1.1x)
Put Spoon
45
50
55
90 (+80%)
80 (+60%)
100 (+82%)
49.9
57.2
50.9 (1.0x)
45.3 (1.1x)
22.6 (2.5x)
Open Drawer
15
35
30
80 (+129%)
60 (+71%)
100 (+233%)
63.6
61.7
48.4 (1.3x)
57.1 (1.1x)
32.4 (1.8x)
Pick Bread
45
65
55
65 (+0%)
80 (+23%)
100 (+82%)
53.2
49.1
65.6 (0.8x)
51.7 (1.0x)
31.6 (1.6x)
Open Toaster
30
30
30
75 (+116%)
100 (+233%)
100 (+233%)
51.2
50.7
43.4 (1.2x)
34.3 (1.5x)
22.1 (2.3x)
Put Bread
60
5
20
60 (+1100%)
75 (+1400%)
100 (+400%)
102
84.8
74.2 (1.4x)
72.1 (1.4x)
36.6 (2.3x)
Insert Wheel
60
35
35
40 (+14%)
30 (-14%)
80 (+129%)
42.7
43.4
53.0 (0.8x)
47.4 (0.9x)
21.9 (2.0x)
Hang Chinese Knot
90
55
40
50 (-10%)
65 (+18%)
100 (+150%)
52.6
54.9
47.5 (1.1x)
44.4 (1.3x)
26.8 (2.0x)
Average
48.8
39.4
39.4
65 (+65%)
71.3 (+81%)
96.3 (+144%)
59.9
57.5
56.3 (1.1x)
51.1 (1.2x)
30.7 (1.9x)
TABLE I: All experiment results for various offline and online fine-tuning methods. We report the policy performance
against various baselines after offline fine-tuning (SFT [47] and Cal-ConRFT) and after online fine-tuning (HG-DAgger [19],
PA-RL [14] and HIL-ConRFT), including success rates and average episode lengths for various tasks. Specifically, for online
fine-tuning, HG-DAgger, and PA-RL training starts from the SFT baseline, and HIL-ConRFT training starts from the Cal-
ConRFT baseline. The performance improvement is relative to corresponding offline results. Policies are trained using the
same number of online episodes with human interventions for all methods. All metrics are reported over 20 trials per task.
BC loss for two main reasons. 1) Firstly, it ensures the policy
continues to align with the demonstration data, preventing
drastic deviations that could lead to performance collapse. This
is important for maintaining the quality of actions in contact-
rich manipulation tasks, where sudden changes in the policy
can result in unsafe or inefficient behaviors. 2) Secondly,
since reinforcement learning inherently involves exploration, it
can become unstable in high-dimensional state-action spaces.
By providing a stabilizing effect on exploration [48], the
BC loss prevents the policy from deviating too far from its
offline baseline, thereby reducing the risk of inefficient or
unsafe behaviors. This aspect is important in real-world robotic
training, especially in physical environments where unsafe
actions can lead to damage or other hazards.
Also, we integrate human interventions into the online
stage through Human-in-the-Loop learning. Specifically, HIL
learning allows for timely interventions by a human operator
who can provide corrective actions during the exploration
process, which will then take over the control of the robot
from the VLA model. These human corrections are added to
the demo buffer D, offering high-level guidance that steers
exploration in a safer and more efficient direction [49]. Human
interventions are essential when the robot engages in de-
structive behaviors, such as colliding with obstacles, applying
excessive force, or damaging the environment. In addition
to ensuring safe exploration, human interventions accelerate
policy convergence. In scenarios where the policy leads the
robot into an unrecoverable or undesirable state or when the
robot becomes stuck in a local optimum that would otherwise
require significant time and steps to overcome without external
assistance, the human operator can step in to correct the robot’s
actions and guide it towards safer and more effective behavior.
This results in a stable learning process, where the VLA model
is fine-tuned quicker and more safely than it would through
autonomous exploration alone.
V. EXPERIMENT AND RESULTS
In this section, we validate the proposed fine-tuning frame-
work through real-world experiments. We first present the
experimental setup and the results for various baselines and
then discuss these results and their implications.
A. Overview of Experiments
Our experiments aim to evaluate our approach’s effective-
ness and efficiency for fine-tuning VLA models in real-world
scenarios. To this end, we perform real-world experiments
across eight diverse manipulation tasks, as illustrated in Figure
2. These tasks are designed to reflect a variety of manipulation
challenges, including object placement tasks (e.g., placing
bread into a toaster and putting bread on a white plate), precise
and contact-rich manipulation (e.g., aligning and inserting a
wheel into the chair base), and dynamic object handling (e.g.,
hanging a Chinese Knot). To validate our fine-tuning approach,
we select the Octo-small model [47] for its balance of per-
formance and inference efficiency, and employ a consistency
policy [45] as the action head on a 7-DoF Franka Emika robot
arm.
For all tasks, the state observation includes two RGB
images captured from a wrist-mounted camera (128 × 128)
and a side camera (256 × 256), in combination with the
robot’s proprioceptive state of the robot arm, including end-
effector poses, twists, forces/torques, and gripper status. The
action space is defined as either a 6-dimensional end-effector
delta pose for the downstream impedance controller or a 7-
dimensional target that includes 1-dimensional binary gripper
action, additionally for tasks that involve grasping. Data col-
lection and policies command actions at 10Hz. Before training,
positive and negative demonstrations are collected from human
operators to train a binary classifier that gives binary feedback
on whether the corresponding task is done successfully or
not for each task. Additionally, each task’s initial state is
randomized using either a scripted robot motion or manual
resets by a human operator. We present descriptions of each
task in our real-world experiments and more details on the
experiment tasks, training, and evaluation procedure in the
Appendix B.


--- Page 6 ---
Fig. 3: Learning curves during online training. This figure presents the success rates, intervention rates, and episode lengths
for HIL-SERL [20], HG-DAgger [19], PA-RL [14] and our method across five representative real-world tasks, displayed as
a running average over 20 episodes. PA-RL is implemented without human intervention. Note that human interventions may
lead the policy to successful outcomes, and thus, the actual policy success rate when interventions exist might be lower than
the curve suggests.
B. Experimental Results
In this section, we provide the experimental results for
all tasks as shown in Figure 2. For each task, we report
result metrics, including the success rate, episode length, and
total training time in Table I. The training time includes the
duration of scripted motions, policy rollouts, and onboard
computations, all of which are conducted using an NVIDIA
RTX A6000 GPU. For the offline stage, we compare Cal-
ConRFT and SFT, where the SFT uses an NLL loss for
behavior cloning [47]. For the online stage, we compared
HIL-ConRFT with multiple baselines, including HG-DAgger
[19] that incorporates human corrections to fine-tune the
policy through supervised learning, PA-RL [14] that optimized
actions through a policy-agnostic Q-function and fine-tune the
policy through supervised learning with the optimized actions.
We also compare HIL-SERL [20] that trains a RL policy with
human interventions from scratch, and RLDG [6] that fine-
tunes the VLA model using SFT [47] with demonstrations
collected by RL policy.
1) ConRFT Outperforms Supervised Methods: We compare
different approaches for supervised and reinforced methods in
Table I and present the corresponding online learning curves in
Figure 3. Our approach, ConRFT, achieves the highest average
success rate of 96.3% after 45 to 90 minutes of real-world
training across all tasks, representing a 144% improvement
over the supervised baseline. It outperforms SOTA methods
such as HG-DAgger and PA-RL, with average success rates
of 65% and 71.3%. While HG-DAgger leverages human
corrections to fine-tune the VLA model through supervised
learning, it fails to achieve significant policy improvement and
even experiences a performance drop on some tasks due to the
sub-optimality and inconsistency of human corrections. For
example, we observe that for contact-rich tasks that require
precise, careful manipulation, such as Insert Wheel and Hang
Chinese Knot, HG-DAgger has limited policy improvement
after online fine-tuning. Specifically, in the Hang Chinese Knot
task, the careful handling of soft objects demands consistent
and precise controls. The inherent variability in human correc-
tions, such as differences in the angle of insertion, introduces
noise and conflicting information into the training process.
This inconsistency prevents the policy’s ability to learn precise
and dexterous behaviors. Additionally, the complexity of con-
tact dynamics means that minor deviations in the policy can
result in significant performance drops, further exacerbating
the challenges posed by inconsistent human corrections.
In the absence of human corrections, PA-RL offers a di-


--- Page 7 ---
Training
Time
(mins)
Success Rate (%)
Episode length
Task
HIL-
SERL[20]
HIL-
ConRFT
HIL-
SERL[20]
HIL-
ConRFT
Pick Banana
45
0 →15
50 →90
30.6
51.2
Put Spoon
45
0 →60
55 →100
56.1
22.6
Open Drawer
15
0 →10
30 →100
67.5
32.4
Pick Bread
45
0 →45
55 →100
22.0
31.6
Open Toaster
30
0 →100
30 →100
28.1
22.1
Put Bread
60
0 →5
20 →100
62.0
36.6
Insert Wheel
60
0 →5
35 →80
42.0
21.9
Hang Chinese Knot
90
0 →15
40 →100
57.3
26.8
Average
48.8
0 →31.9
39.4 →96.3
45.7
30.7
TABLE II: Experiment results for training from scratch
(HIL-SERL [20]) and fine-tuning VLA (HIL-ConRFT).
Policies are trained using the same number of episodes with
human interventions. All metrics are reported over 20 trials
per task.
rect action optimization using a policy-agnostic Q-function
trained through Cal-QL. By optimizing actions based on
reward signals, PA-RL overcomes the sub-optimality of human
corrections and demonstrates more stable policy improvement
in simpler tasks such as Pick Banana and Put Spoon. However,
it fails to improve the policy performance in contact-rich
tasks that require precise, careful manipulation, such as Insert
Wheel. Precise alignment and controlled insertion forces are
critical in the Insert Wheel task. However, due to the limited
state coverage in the demo buffer and replay buffer, the policy-
agnostic Q-function is unable to generalize effectively to dif-
ferent wheel and slot positions. This limits the policy’s ability
to handle the slight variations in state transitions required for
successful insertion, leading to sub-optimal performance in
complex manipulation scenarios. Consequently, while PA-RL
shows promise in simple environments, it struggles to scale to
complex tasks demanding high precision and dexterity.
These observations underscore the advantages of our pro-
posed approach, which effectively mitigates the issues asso-
ciated with inconsistent human corrections and limited state
coverage by reinforcement learning. Our method, ConRFT,
effectively and safely explores a broad range of states and
directly optimizes the policy using task-specific rewards,
thereby demonstrating high sample efficiency and mitigating
the impact of inconsistent human corrections. This stability
and performance highlight the effectiveness of our approach
in overcoming the limitations of existing fine-tuning methods
in real-world robotic applications.
Another critical metric for evaluating policy performance is
the episode length, which represents the total number of steps
the policy takes to complete a task. As shown in Table I, the
VLA model fine-tuned with HIL-ConRFT achieves an average
episode length of 30.7 steps, demonstrating a 1.9x shorter
than the offline baselines. In contrast, HG-DAgger achieves an
average episode length of 56.3 steps, which is only 1.1x shorter
than the offline baseline. Similarly, PA-RL attains an average
episode length of 51.1 steps. It lacks policy exploration due
to the conservative nature of the policy-agnostic Q-function,
preventing it from effectively optimizing how to complete the
task more quickly or trying more efficient behaviors.
These results illustrate that ConRFT can effectively exploit
the dynamic characteristics of MDPs to optimize the VLA
model via consistency policy for maximizing the discounted
sum of rewards. They also show the limitations of supervised
methods in handling sub-optimal data and efficient policy
exploration. By encouraging policies to obtain rewards more
quickly, our approach results in shorter episode lengths than
supervised methods relying solely on imitating demonstra-
tions. This enhanced sample efficiency and reduced episode
length highlight the advantages of ConRFT for fine-tuning
VLA models in real-world robotic applications.
2) Fine-tuning VLA Outperforms Training From Scratch:
Reinforcement learning from scratch typically demands ex-
tensive interaction with the environment and frequent human
interventions, which can lead to a lengthy training process and
high safety risks. For instance, HIL-SERL [20], an approach
that trains policies through RL from scratch with human
interventions, fails to converge to an effective policy within
the same training duration as our approach, reaching an
average success rate of only 31.9% as shown in Table II.
The learning curves in Figure 3 reveal that HIL-ConRFT
consistently improves policy performance during the online
stage. While HIL-SERL can achieve optimal policies even-
tually, it usually requires over two hours of online training
with a higher intervention rate for each task, resulting in more
destructive behaviors during exploring (e.g., collisions with the
environment), especially in the early stage of training.
In contrast, starting from a pre-trained VLA model and
performing offline fine-tuning reduces the online training
time and improves sample efficiency. Building upon offline
initialized policy, ConRFT accelerates the policy convergence
and enhances the final performance. As a result, fine-tuning
VLA models via consistency policy enables them to reach
higher success rates more quickly and with fewer interventions
compared to training entirely from scratch, demonstrating the
benefits of leveraging pre-trained VLA models in real-world
robotic applications.
3) Analysis:
a) Why fine-tuning from Cal-ConRFT rather than SFT
or Cal-QL?: As illustrated in Table I, we observe that during
the offline stage, the performance of Cal-ConRFT is similar to
that of the SFT baseline. This observation raises the question
of why Q loss should be introduced during the offline stage.
The reason is that when the offline stage relies solely on
SFT, the fine-tuned policy benefits from imitation learning
but may require substantial online fine-tuning to handle states
and actions not covered by the offline dataset. In contrast,
incorporating Q loss during the offline stage allows the
early Q-value estimations to provide initialization for policy
improvement, facilitating quicker adaptation during online
fine-tuning. This approach helps address potential biases and
ensures more stable learning. Moreover, in scenarios with a
small set of demonstrations, we find that relying on Cal-QL
alone is insufficient to train an effective policy, resulting in
a 0% success rate on all tasks. The lack of data affects the
policy’s ability to accurately estimate Q-values, resulting in
weak performance after the offline stage and longer training


--- Page 8 ---
Fig. 4: Learning curves for HIL-ConRFT online fine-tuning
from SFT [47] and Cal-ConRFT baselines. This figure
presents success and intervention rates across two represen-
tative tasks, displayed as a running average over 20 episodes.
Success Rate (%)
Task
DP[50]
SFT[47]
RLDG[6]
Cal-ConRFT
HIL-ConRFT
Put Spoon
60
70
100
55
100
Put Bread
30
65
100
20
100
Insert Wheel
35
40
50
35
80
Average
41.7
58.3
83.3
36.7
93.3
TABLE
III:
Experimental
comparisons
with
various
demonstrations. Diffusion Policy (DP) [50] and SFT [47]
are trained with 150 demonstrations collected by human
teleoperation, while RLDG [6] is trained with 150 demon-
strations collected by RL policy. Cal-ConRFT is trained with
20 demonstrations collected by human teleoperation, and HIL-
ConRFT is trained with 20 demonstrations as well as 80-120
policy-generated rollout trajectories. All metrics are reported
over 20 trials per task.
time in the online stage.
We compare the online fine-tuning curves starting from Cal-
ConRFT and the SFT baseline on two representative tasks
to investigate further the impact of introducing Q loss, as
shown in Figure 4. Although both curves begin with similar
success rates, the higher intervention rate observed during
training from the SFT baseline indicates that the SFT-trained
policy experiences severe policy forgetting in the early stages
of online training. This suggests that Cal-ConRFT enables
quicker adaptation of the online learning process by leveraging
the Q loss during the offline stage, allowing more effective and
stable policy improvement with a small set of demonstration
data.
b) Does increasing the number of demonstrations en-
hance policy performance for SFT?:
Typically, during a
Success Rate (%)
Task
Kosmos-2(1.6B)
PaliGemma(3B)
Pick Banana
60→100
65→100
Put Spoon
55→100
30→100
Hang Chinese Knot
45→100
60→100
Average
53.3→100
51.7→100
TABLE IV: Experimental results of ConRFT on different
VLA models. We fine-tune RoboVLM [51] with two VLM
backbones using our method. Specifically, we fine-tune only
the action head while keeping the visual encoders and trans-
former backbone frozen. All metrics are reported over 20 trials
per task.
45-60 minutes online fine-tuning stage, the policy collects
approximately 80 to 120 successful and failed trajectories. To
ensure a fair comparison between our approach and supervised
training methods, we further compare training Diffusion Policy
(DP) [50] and supervised fine-tuning VLA [47] using 150
demonstrations on three representative tasks, which aligns with
the total number of demonstrations utilized by our approach.
Additionally, we compare RLDG [6] with fine-tuning using
150 demonstrations collected by RL policy. As shown in Table
III, even though DP and SFT benefit from a larger quantity
of demonstrations, their success rates still fail to match the
performance of our method, especially on contact-rich tasks
such as Insert Wheel. This indicates that simply adding more
human-collected demonstrations with supervised learning does
not necessarily guarantee higher performance due to the incon-
sistent and sub-optimal actions inherent in human-collected
data. Meanwhile, RLDG achieves higher success rates using
optimal data collected from RL policies, suggesting that the
consistency of these RL-collected data can improve the final
performance. On the other hand, our method directly fine-
tune the policy by optimizing the consistency-based training
objective, achieving the highest success rate.
c) Practicality of ConRFT across Various VLA Models:
ConRFT is highly versatile and can be applied to any VLM-
based architecture with an action head. This flexibility stems
from its ability to optimize the action generation process
independently of the underlying visual encoder, making it
adaptable to various VLA frameworks. To further validate
its applicability generalization, we test out approach on fine-
tuning RoboVLM [51] with two distinct VLM backbones.
As shown in Table IV, the results indicate that ConRFT
can effectively enhance the performance of various VLAs,
improving the success rates across multiple robotic tasks. This
ability to fine-tune the action generation while leveraging the
pretrained visual components underscores the broad applica-
bility of ConRFT.
VI. LIMITATIONS
Although our approach demonstrates strong performance
and sample efficiency for fine-tuning VLA models in real-
world manipulation tasks, several limitations remain.


--- Page 9 ---
A. Sensitivity to Reward Engineering
In this work, we implement a task-specific binary classi-
fier to calculate the reward for RL. However, the inherent
distributional shift between the classifier’s training data and
the state-action distributions generated during RL exploration
creates a critical vulnerability, as it can lead the learned policy
to engage in reward hacking, exploiting unintended behaviors
where the classifier provides inaccurate rewards. For instance,
the robot might position its end-effector at a specific location
that triggers a false positive, causing the policy to converge to
an incorrect behavior. Since these reward classifiers typically
provide only sparse feedback, the policy may learn slowly,
even with the help of human interventions. On the other hand,
this reward-driven approach leads to highly specialized poli-
cies that are closely tied to the specific conditions of the task,
limiting their ability to generalize to new environments. While
introducing multi-task dense reward signals could improve
sample efficiency and accelerate policy convergence, it would
also demand more sophisticated reward engineering for real-
world applications.
B. Frozen Encoders and Transformer Backbone
Our current implementation runs the interaction and policy
learning processes in separate threads, fine-tuning only the
action head network with consistent policy while keeping the
visual encoders and transformer backbone frozen. While this
design choice boosts real-time performance, it constrains the
policy’s ability to refine its perception and representation mod-
ules during online training, especially for unseen scenarios.
Allowing partial or complete updates of these frozen compo-
nents, potentially with efficient techniques such as parameter-
efficient fine-tuning (e.g., LoRA [52]), could enhance final
task performance and adaptability without sacrificing safety
or speed.
VII. CONCLUSION
We presented a two-stage approach, ConRFT, for reinforced
fine-tuning VLA models in real-world robotic applications.
By first performing offline fine-tuning (Cal-ConRFT) with a
small set of demonstrations, we initialize a reliable policy and
value function via a unified training objective that integrates Q
loss and BC loss in a consistency-based framework. We then
leveraged task-specific rewards and human interventions in the
online fine-tuning stage (HIL-ConRFT) to fine-tune the VLA
model via consistency policy. Experiments on eight diverse
real-world tasks demonstrated that our approach outperforms
SOTA methods in terms of success rate, sample efficiency,
and episode length. Overall, this work showcases a practical
way to use reinforcement learning for safe and efficient VLA
model fine-tuning.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China (NSFC) under Grant No. 62136008 and
in part by the International Partnership Program of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences under Grant 104GJHZ2022013GC.
REFERENCES
[1] Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram
Maddukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar, Abra-
ham Lee, Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar,
et al. Open X-Embodiment: robotic learning datasets and
RT-X models. In International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, ICRA, 2024.
[2] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen
Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski, Tianli Ding,
Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, et al. RT-2:
vision-language-action models transfer web knowledge
to robotic control. Conference on Robot Learning, CoRL,
2023.
[3] Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Es-
mail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai, Lachy
Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, et al. π0: A vision-
language-action flow model for general robot control.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.24164, 2024.
[4] Joshua Jones, Oier Mees, Carmelo Sferrazza, Kyle Sta-
chowicz, Pieter Abbeel, and Sergey Levine.
Beyond
sight: Finetuning generalist robot policies with hetero-
geneous sensors via language grounding. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2501.04693, 2025.
[5] Lirui Wang, Xinlei Chen, Jialiang Zhao, and Kaiming
He. Scaling proprioceptive-visual learning with hetero-
geneous pre-trained transformers. In Neural Information
Processing Systems, NeurIPS, 2024.
[6] Charles Xu, Qiyang Li, Jianlan Luo, and Sergey Levine.
RLDG: robotic generalist policy distillation via reinforce-
ment learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.09858, 2024.
[7] Paul F. Christiano, Jan Leike, Tom B. Brown, Miljan
Martic, Shane Legg, and Dario Amodei.
Deep rein-
forcement learning from human preferences. In Neural
Information Processing Systems, NeurIPS, 2017.
[8] Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, and other.
Training language models to follow instructions with
human feedback.
In Neural Information Processing
Systems, NeurIPS, 2022.
[9] Luong Quoc Trung, Xinbo Zhang, Zhanming Jie, Peng
Sun, Xiaoran Jin, and Hang Li. ReFT: reasoning with
reinforced fine-tuning. In Association for Computational
Linguistics, ACL, 2024.
[10] Richard Yuanzhe Pang, Weizhe Yuan, Kyunghyun Cho,
He He, Sainbayar Sukhbaatar, and Jason Weston.
It-
erative reasoning preference optimization.
In Neural
Information Processing Systems, NeurIPS, 2024.
[11] Rajkumar Ramamurthy, Prithviraj Ammanabrolu, Kiant´e
Brantley, Jack Hessel, Rafet Sifa, Christian Bauckhage,
Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Yejin Choi. Is reinforcement
learning (not) for natural language processing: Bench-
marks, baselines, and building blocks for natural lan-
guage policy optimization. In International Conference
on Learning Representations, ICLR, 2023.


--- Page 10 ---
[12] Hao Bai, Yifei Zhou, Mert Cemri, Jiayi Pan, Alane Suhr,
Sergey Levine, and Aviral Kumar.
DigiRL: training
in-the-wild device-control agents with autonomous rein-
forcement learning.
In Neural Information Processing
Systems, NeurIPS, 2024.
[13] Thomas Carta, Cl´ement Romac, Thomas Wolf, Syl-
vain Lamprier, Olivier Sigaud, and Pierre-Yves Oudeyer.
Grounding large language models in interactive environ-
ments with online reinforcement learning.
In Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning, ICML, 2023.
[14] Max Sobol Mark, Tian Gao, Georgia Gabriela Sampaio,
Mohan Kumar Srirama, Archit Sharma, Chelsea Finn,
and Aviral Kumar. Policy agnostic RL: offline RL and
online RL fine-tuning of any class and backbone. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2412.06685, 2024.
[15] Seunghyun Lee, Younggyo Seo, Kimin Lee, Pieter
Abbeel, and Jinwoo Shin.
Offline-to-online reinforce-
ment learning via balanced replay and pessimistic q-
ensemble.
In Conference on Robot Learning, CoRL,
2021.
[16] Mitsuhiko
Nakamoto,
Simon
Zhai,
Anikait
Singh,
Max Sobol Mark, Yi Ma, Chelsea Finn, Aviral Kumar,
and Sergey Levine.
Cal-QL: Calibrated offline RL
pre-training for efficient online fine-tuning.
In Neural
Information Processing Systems, NeurIPS, 2023.
[17] Zhiyuan Zhou, Andy Peng, Qiyang Li, Sergey Levine,
and Aviral Kumar. Efficient online reinforcement learn-
ing fine-tuning need not retain offline data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.07762, 2024.
[18] Yuhui Chen, Haoran Li, and Dongbin Zhao. Boosting
continuous control with consistency policy. In Interna-
tional Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent
Systems, AAMAS, 2024.
[19] Michael Kelly, Chelsea Sidrane, Katherine Rose Driggs-
Campbell, and Mykel J. Kochenderfer.
HG-DAgger:
interactive imitation learning with human experts.
In
International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
ICRA, 2019.
[20] Jianlan Luo, Charles Xu, Jeffrey Wu, and Sergey Levine.
Precise and dexterous robotic manipulation via human-
in-the-loop reinforcement learning.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2410.21845, 2024.
[21] Stephen
Casper,
Xander
Davies,
Claudia
Shi,
Thomas
Krendl
Gilbert,
J´er´emy
Scheurer,
Javier
Rando,
Rachel
Freedman,
Tomasz
Korbak,
David
Lindner, Pedro Freire, et al.
Open problems and
fundamental limitations of reinforcement learning from
human feedback.
Transactions on Machine Learning
Research, 2023.
[22] Yuexiang Zhai, Hao Bai, Zipeng Lin, Jiayi Pan, Sheng-
bang Tong, Yifei Zhou, Alane Suhr, Saining Xie, Yann
LeCun, Yi Ma, et al. Fine-tuning large vision-language
models as decision-making agents via reinforcement
learning.
In Neural Information Processing Systems,
NeurIPS, 2024.
[23] Kimin Lee, Laura M. Smith, and Pieter Abbeel. PEB-
BLE: feedback-efficient interactive reinforcement learn-
ing via relabeling experience and unsupervised pre-
training. In International Conference on Machine Learn-
ing, ICML, 2021.
[24] John Schulman, Filip Wolski, Prafulla Dhariwal, Alec
Radford, and Oleg Klimov. Proximal policy optimization
algorithms. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.06347, 2017.
[25] Abhishek Gupta, Vikash Kumar, Corey Lynch, Sergey
Levine, and Karol Hausman. Relay policy learning: Solv-
ing long-horizon tasks via imitation and reinforcement
learning. In Conference on Robot Learning, CoRL, 2019.
[26] Zhihong Shao, Peiyi Wang, Qihao Zhu, Runxin Xu,
Junxiao Song, Xiao Bi, Haowei Zhang, Mingchuan
Zhang, YK Li, Y Wu, et al. DeepSeekMath: pushing
the limits of mathematical reasoning in open language
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2402.03300, 2024.
[27] Philip J Ball, Laura Smith, Ilya Kostrikov, and Sergey
Levine.
Efficient online reinforcement learning with
offline data.
In International Conference on Machine
Learning, ICML, 2023.
[28] Boyu Li, Haobin Jiang, Ziluo Ding, Xinrun Xu, Haoran
Li, Dongbin Zhao, and Zongqing Lu.
SELU: self-
learning embodied mllms in unknown environments.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.03303, 2024.
[29] Martin A. Riedmiller, Thomas Gabel, Roland Hafner, and
Sascha Lange. Reinforcement learning for robot soccer.
Autonomous Robots, 27(1):55–73, 2009.
[30] Tobias Johannink, Shikhar Bahl, Ashvin Nair, Jianlan
Luo, Avinash Kumar, Matthias Loskyll, Juan Aparicio
Ojea, Eugen Solowjow, and Sergey Levine.
Residual
reinforcement learning for robot control. In International
Conference on Robotics and Automation, ICRA, 2019.
[31] Jianlan Luo, Zheyuan Hu, Charles Xu, You Liang Tan,
Jacob Berg, Archit Sharma, Stefan Schaal, Chelsea Finn,
Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine. SERL: A software
suite for sample-efficient robotic reinforcement learning.
In International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
ICRA, 2024.
[32] Tony Z. Zhao, Jianlan Luo, Oleg Sushkov, Rugile Pevce-
viciute, Nicolas Heess, Jon Scholz, Stefan Schaal, and
Sergey Levine. Offline meta-reinforcement learning for
industrial insertion.
In International Conference on
Robotics and Automation, ICRA, 2022.
[33] Jianlan Luo, Perry Dong, Yuexiang Zhai, Yi Ma, and
Sergey Levine. RLIF: interactive imitation learning as
reinforcement learning. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR, 2024.
[34] Zheyuan Hu, Aaron Rovinsky, Jianlan Luo, Vikash Ku-
mar, Abhishek Gupta, and Sergey Levine.
REBOOT:
reuse data for bootstrapping efficient real-world dexter-
ous manipulation.
In Conference on Robot Learning,
CoRL, 2023.
[35] Russell Mendonca, Emmanuel Panov, Bernadette Bucher,
Jiuguang Wang, and Deepak Pathak.
Continuously
improving mobile manipulation with autonomous real-
world RL.
In Conference on Robot Learning, CoRL,


--- Page 11 ---
2024.
[36] Henry Zhu, Abhishek Gupta, Aravind Rajeswaran,
Sergey Levine, and Vikash Kumar. Dexterous manipula-
tion with deep reinforcement learning: Efficient, general,
and low-cost. In International Conference on Robotics
and Automation, ICRA, 2019.
[37] Ziwen Zhuang, Zipeng Fu, Jianren Wang, Christopher G.
Atkeson, S¨oren Schwertfeger, Chelsea Finn, and Hang
Zhao. Robot parkour learning. In Conference on Robot
Learning, CoRL, 2023.
[38] Jan Peters and Stefan Schaal.
Reinforcement learning
by reward-weighted regression for operational space con-
trol. In International Conference on Machine Learning,
ICML, 2007.
[39] Henry Zhu, Justin Yu, Abhishek Gupta, Dhruv Shah,
Kristian Hartikainen, Avi Singh, Vikash Kumar, and
Sergey Levine.
The ingredients of real world robotic
reinforcement learning. In International Conference on
Learning Representations, ICLR, 2020.
[40] Rishabh Agarwal, Max Schwarzer, Pablo Samuel Castro,
Aaron C. Courville, and Marc G. Bellemare. Reincarnat-
ing reinforcement learning: Reusing prior computation to
accelerate progress.
In Neural Information Processing
Systems, NeurIPS, 2022.
[41] Rafael Rafailov, Kyle Beltran Hatch, Victor Kolev,
John D. Martin, Mariano Phielipp, and Chelsea Finn.
MOTO: offline pre-training to online fine-tuning for
model-based robot learning.
In Conference on Robot
Learning, CoRL, 2023.
[42] Aravind Rajeswaran, Vikash Kumar, Abhishek Gupta,
Giulia Vezzani, John Schulman, Emanuel Todorov, and
Sergey Levine. Learning complex dexterous manipula-
tion with deep reinforcement learning and demonstra-
tions. In Robotics: Science and Systems, RSS, 2018.
[43] Ashvin Nair, Bob McGrew, Marcin Andrychowicz, Wo-
jciech Zaremba, and Pieter Abbeel. Overcoming explo-
ration in reinforcement learning with demonstrations. In
International Conference on Robotics and Automation,
ICRA, 2018.
[44] Xing Fang, Qichao Zhang, Haoran Li, and Dongbin
Zhao.
Consistency policy with categorical critic for
autonomous driving.
In International Conference on
Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, AAMAS,
2025.
[45] Aaditya Prasad, Kevin Lin, Jimmy Wu, Linqi Zhou, and
Jeannette Bohg. Consistency policy: Accelerated visuo-
motor policies via consistency distillation. In Robotics:
Science and Systems, RSS, 2024.
[46] Haoran Li, Yaocheng Zhang, Haowei Wen, Yuanheng
Zhu, and Dongbin Zhao. Stabilizing diffusion model for
robotic control with dynamic programming and transition
feasibility. IEEE Transactions on Artificial Intelligence,
5(9):4585–4594, 2024.
[47] Dibya Ghosh, Homer Rich Walke, Karl Pertsch, Kevin
Black, Oier Mees, Sudeep Dasari, Joey Hejna, Tobias
Kreiman, Charles Xu, Jianlan Luo, You Liang Tan,
Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Quan Vuong, Ted Xiao, Pan-
nag R. Sanketi, Dorsa Sadigh, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey
Levine. Octo: an open-source generalist robot policy. In
Robotics: Science and Systems, RSS, 2024.
[48] Haoran Li, Zhennan Jiang, Yuhui Chen, and Dongbin
Zhao. Generalizing consistency policy to visual RL with
prioritized proximal experience regularization. In Neural
Information Processing Systems, NeurIPS, 2024.
[49] Huihan Liu, Soroush Nasiriany, Lance Zhang, Zhiyao
Bao, and Yuke Zhu. Robot learning on the job: Human-
in-the-loop autonomy and learning during deployment.
In Robotics: Science and Systems, RSS, 2023.
[50] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric
Cousineau, Benjamin Burchfiel, and Shuran Song. Dif-
fusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action
diffusion. In Robotics: Science and Systems, RSS, 2023.
[51] Xinghang Li, Peiyan Li, Minghuan Liu, Dong Wang,
Jirong Liu, Bingyi Kang, Xiao Ma, Tao Kong, Hanbo
Zhang, and Huaping Liu.
Towards generalist robot
policies: What matters in building vision-language-action
models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2412.14058, 2024.
[52] Edward J. Hu, Yelong Shen, Phillip Wallis, Zeyuan
Allen-Zhu, Yuanzhi Li, Shean Wang, Lu Wang, and
Weizhu Chen. LoRA: low-rank adaptation of large lan-
guage models. In International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR, 2022.


--- Page 12 ---
APPENDIX
A. Algorithm Illustration
The whole pipeline of conRFT is outlined in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Procedure of ConRFT
Require: A pre-trained VLA model πθ,ψ with VLA parameter
ϕ and a consistency head parameter ψ. A critic model Q
with parameter θ. A pre-collected dataset D including 20-30
demonstrations. Initialize batch size B.
Randomly initialize the action head ψ and the critic model
θ
# Stage I: Offline fine-tuning with Cal-ConRFT
for each offline training step do
Sample (st, at, rt, st+1) of batch size from D
Update the action head ψ and the critic model θ by
Equation 1 and Equation 3.
end for
# Stage II: Online fine-tuning with HIL-ConRFT
# Start Policy Learning Thread:
Wait until The number of transitions in R is at least 100
for each online training step do
Sample (st, at, rt, st+1) of B
2 from D and R
Combine both minibatches to form batch of size B
Update the action head ψ and the critic model θ by
Equation 4 and Equation 5.
end for
# Start Interaction Thread:
for each interaction step do
if no human intervention then
Take action at ∼πψ(·|st)
Store transition (st, at, rt, st+1) in R
else
Take action aintv
Store transition (st, aintv, rt, st+1) in D
end if
end for
B. Task Description, Setup and Policy Training Details
In this section, we provide hardware setup and training de-
tails for each task. The 6-dimensional action space refers to the
6-dimensional end-effector delta pose, and the 7-dimensional
action space includes the 6-dimensional end-effector delta pose
and 1-dimensional gripper control action. The learning rate is
3e-4, and the batch size is 256 for all tasks.
For the consistency policy utilized for fine-tuning VLA
models, we set k ∈[0.002, 80.0] and the number of sub-
intervals M
= 40 where the sub-interval boundaries are
determined with the formula ki = (ϵ
1
ρ +
i−1
M−1(T
1
ρ −ϵ
1
ρ ))ρ,
where ρ = 7. The network is based on a 2-layer multi-layer
perceptron (MLP), with a hidden size of 256 and the Mish
function serving as the activation function.
For the diffusion policy, we use diffusion steps K = 5, a
cosine beta schedule, Resnet 18, and the LNResnet architec-
ture, with a hidden size of 256 and n = 3 blocks.
For the reward of all tasks, we give +10 reward when the
task is completed and a −0.05 reward on each step. For HIL-
SERL, which uses a DQN network for gripper control, we give
a −0.2 reward every time the policy opens/closes the gripper.
a) Pick Banana: This task involves picking up a banana
in the basket and placing it on a green plate, which requires
control of the gripper to move the fruit, as shown in Figure 5.
It requires the policy to grasp and place the banana, ensuring it
remains intact while avoiding collisions with the surrounding
environment, such as the basket. We report more specific
details of the policy training for this task in Table V. The
task description for the VLA model is ”Put the yellow banana
on the green plate.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
20
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
3 cm in x and y
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE V: Policy training details for the Pick Banana task.
b) Put Spoon: This task involves picking up a spoon and
placing it on a blue table linen, which requires the gripper to
grasp and put the spoon, as shown in Figure 5. The challenge
lies in the control needed to grasp the spoon. We report more
specific details of the policy training for this task in Table VI.
The task description for the VLA model is ”Put the spoon on
the blue towel.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
20
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
3 cm in x and y
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE VI: Policy training details for the Put Spoon task.
c) Open Drawer: This task involves opening a drawer by
grasping the handle and pulling it outward, as shown in Figure
5. It requires the policy to securely grip the handle and apply
the correct force to open the drawer without damaging the
hinges or surrounding area. We report more specific details
of the policy training for this task in Table VII. The task
description for the VLA model is ”Open the drawer.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
6-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
20
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Script reset
Randomization range
3 cm in y and x
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE VII: Policy training details for the Open Drawer
task.


--- Page 13 ---
d) Pick Bread: This task involves picking up a slice of
bread and placing it into a toaster, which requires control of the
gripper to position the bread accurately without damaging it,
as shown in Figure 5. The challenge lies in aligning the bread
with the toaster’s slot and lowering it, avoiding collisions with
the toaster or the surrounding environment. We report more
specific details of the policy training for this task in Table VIII.
The task description for the VLA model is ”Put the bread in
the grey toaster.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
30
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
2 cm in x and y
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE VIII: Policy training details for the Pick Bread task.
e) Open Toaster: This task involves pressing the button
on a toaster to start the toasting process, as shown in Figure
5. It requires precise control of the gripper to avoid slipping
or applying excessive force while ensuring that the button is
pressed in a controlled and consistent manner. We report more
specific details of the policy training for this task in Table IX.
The task description for the VLA model is ”Press the black
button and open the toaster.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
6-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
20
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Script reset
Randomization range
2 cm in y and z
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE IX: Policy training details for the Open Toaster
task.
f) Put Bread: This task involves picking up a slice of
toasted bread from the toaster and placing it on a white plate,
as shown in Figure 5. The challenge lies in the precision
required to grasp the toast without crushing or damaging it.
The gripper must carefully move the toast from the toaster
slot while avoiding contact with the toaster’s edges or other
objects nearby. We report more specific details of the policy
training for this task in Table X. The task description for the
VLA model is ”Put the bread on the white plate.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
30
Max episode length
120
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
2 cm in x and y
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE X: Policy training details for the Put Bread task.
g) Insert Wheel: This task involves installing wheels on
the chair base by inserting pins into their corresponding slots,
as shown in Figure 5. It is a contact-rich task requiring precise
control to ensure the pins align correctly with the slots. The
complexity of this task increases due to the tight tolerances
and complex contact dynamics between the pin and the slot,
making it a highly demanding task that requires precision and
control. We report more specific details of the policy training
for this task in Table XI. The task description for the VLA
model is ”Insert the black wheel into the grey chair base.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
30
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
2 cm in x and y
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE XI: Policy training details for the Insert Wheel
task.
h) Hang Chinese Knot: This task involves hanging a
Chinese knot on a hook, which requires careful manipulation
of a soft and dynamic object, as shown in Figure 5. The
task requires fine dexterity to handle the knot’s soft body
and to maintain its structure while attaching it to the hook.
The task involves dealing with the dynamics of soft object
manipulation, where maintaining consistent contact and proper
tension is critical for success. We report more specific details
of the policy training for this task in Table XII. The task
description for the VLA model is ”Hang the Chinese knot
on the hook.”
Parameter
Value
Action space
7-dimensional
Initial offline demonstrations
30
Max episode length
100
Reset method
Human reset
Randomization range
3 cm in y and z
(α, β, η) for offline fine-tuning
(0.01, 1.0, 0.1)
(β, η) for online fine-tuning
(0.5, 1.0)
TABLE XII: Policy training details for the Hang Chinese
Knot task.
C. More experiment results
In this section, we provide all policy learning curves for
HIL-ConRFT on all tasks in Figure 6.


--- Page 14 ---
Fig. 5: Hardware setup and illustrations of camera views. We give the illustrations of hardware setup and the corresponding
camera views for all real-world tasks in this paper, including a) Pick Banana, b) Put Spoon, c) Open Drawer, d) Pick Bread,
e) Open Toaster, f) Put Bread, g) Insert Wheel, h) Hand Chinese Knot.


--- Page 15 ---
Fig. 6: Learning curves during online training for all tasks. This figure presents the success rates, intervention rates, and
episode lengths, displayed as a running average of over 20 episodes.

