
--- Page 1 ---
Any-point Trajectory Modeling for Policy Learning
Chuan Wen ∗1,2,5
Xingyu Lin∗1
John So∗3
Kai Chen6
Qi Dou6
Yang Gao2,4,5
Pieter Abbeel1
1UC Berkeley
2IIIS, Tsinghua University
3Stanford University
4Shanghai AI Laboratory
5Shanghai Qi Zhi Institute
6 CUHK
Instructions
Predicted Future Trajectories of Any Points
open the 
middle 
drawer of the 
cabinet
fold the cloth 
and pull it to 
the right
pick up the 
bag and 
place it on 
the shelf
t
Fig. 1: Given a task instruction and the initial positions of any set of points in an image frame, our Any-point Trajectory Model
(ATM) can predict the future trajectories of these points conditioned on the task. After training the model on an action-free
video dataset, the predicted trajectories serve as effective guidance for learning visuomotor policies for a set of language-
conditioned manipulation tasks.
Abstract—Learning from demonstration is a powerful method
for teaching robots new skills, and having more demonstration
data often improves policy learning. However, the high cost of
collecting demonstration data is a significant bottleneck. Videos,
as a rich data source, contain knowledge of behaviors, physics,
and semantics, but extracting control-specific information from
them is challenging due to the lack of action labels. In this work,
we introduce a novel framework, Any-point Trajectory Modeling
(ATM), that utilizes video demonstrations by pre-training a
trajectory model to predict future trajectories of arbitrary
points within a video frame. Once trained, these trajectories
provide detailed control guidance, enabling the learning of robust
visuomotor policies with minimal action-labeled data. Across over
130 language-conditioned tasks we evaluated in both simulation
and the real world, ATM outperforms strong video pre-training
*First three authors contributed equally: Chuan Wen led the implementation
and experiments. Xingyu Lin came up with the idea, supervised the technical
development, and contributed to model debugging. John So implemented the
Robot-to-robot transfer experiments and UniPi baselines.
baselines by 80% on average. Furthermore, we show effective
transfer learning of manipulation skills from human videos and
videos from a different robot morphology. Visualizations and
code are available at: https://xingyu-lin.github.io/atm.
I. INTRODUCTION
Computer vision and natural language understanding have
made significant advances in recent years [22, 7], where the
availability of large datasets plays a critical role. Similarly,
in robotics, scaling up human demonstration data has been
key for learning new skills [6, 34, 14], with a clear trend
of performance improvement with larger datasets [29, 6].
However, human demonstrations, typically action-labeled tra-
jectories collected via teleoperation devices [56, 53], are
time-consuming and labor-intensive to collect. For instance,
collecting 130K trajectories in [6] took 17 months, making
data collection a major bottleneck in robot learning.
arXiv:2401.00025v3  [cs.RO]  12 Jul 2024


--- Page 2 ---
Videos contain knowledge about behaviors, physics, and
semantics, presenting an alternative data source. However,
the lack of action labels makes utilization of video data in
policy learning difficult. Previous works have addressed this
by using self-supervised objectives for video pre-training to
learn a feature representation of the observation for policy
learning [44, 33, 42]. However, a feature representation only
describes the state at the current time step, largely neglecting
the transition dynamics that predicts future states. To explicitly
model the transition dynamics, prior works have developed
video prediction models that predict future image frames from
current ones to guide policy learning [12, 55, 13]. However,
learning a video prediction model for control introduces two
challenges. Firstly, the task of video prediction avoids any
abstraction by modeling changes to every pixel, coupling the
physical motion with visual appearances such as texture, and
lighting. This coupling makes modeling difficult, often result-
ing in hallucinations and unrealistic future predictions [12].
Secondly, these models are computationally demanding in
both training and inferencing. With limited computational
resources, performance significantly declines. Moreover, the
high inference cost compels these models to adopt open-loop
execution [12, 5], which tends to result in less robust policies.
In this paper, we propose a novel and structured repre-
sentation to bridge video pre-training and policy learning.
We first represent each state as a set of points in a video
frame. To model the temporal structure in videos, we learn an
Any-point Trajectory Model (ATM) that takes the positions
of the points in the current frame as input and outputs their
future trajectories. We predict these trajectories in the camera
coordinate frame to minimize the assumptions on calibrated
cameras. These 2D point trajectories correspond to trajectories
of particles in the 3D space and are a universal representation
of the motions that can transfer to different domains and tasks.
Contrasting with the video prediction approach of tracking
changes in pixel intensity, the particle-based trajectory mod-
eling offers a faithful abstraction of the physical dynamics,
naturally incorporating inductive biases like object perma-
nence and continuous motion. We first pre-train the trajectory
model on actionless video datasets. After pre-training, the
predicted trajectories can function as subgoals to guide the
control policy. We then train trajectory-guided policies using
only a minimal amount of action-labeled demonstration data.
For training the ATMs, we generate self-supervised training
data by leveraging recent advancements in vision models
for accurate point tracking [20]. Across over 130 language-
conditioned tasks we evaluated in both simulation and the real
world, ATM significantly surpasses various strong baselines
in video pre-training, achieving an average success rate of
63% compared to the highest success rate of 37% by previous
methods, marking an improvement of over 80%. Additionally,
we demonstrate that our method facilitates effective transfer
learning from human videos and videos of a robot with a
different morphology. We summarize our main contributions
below:
1) We propose an Any-point Trajectory Model, a simple
and novel framework that bridges video pre-training to
policy learning, leveraging the structured representation
of particle trajectories.
2) Through extensive experiments on simulated bench-
marks and in the real world, we demonstrate that our
method can effectively utilize video data in pre-training
and significantly outperform various video pre-training
baselines in an imitation learning setting.
3) We
demonstrate
effective
learning
from
cross-
embodiment human and robot videos.
II. RELATED WORK
State representation for control. In learning end-to-end
visuomotor policies, the policy is typically parameterized as
a neural network that takes image observation as the input
representation [38, 6, 49]. Due to the lack of inductive bias,
these approaches require training on a large number of demon-
stration trajectories, which is expensive to collect. On the
other hand, different structured representations are proposed
to improve the data efficiency, such as key points [36, 31],
mesh [25, 19], or neural 3D representation [24, 37]. However,
prior structures often limit the policy to specific tasks. In
contrast, we propose to utilize future trajectories of arbitrary
points in the image as additional input to the policy, mak-
ing minimal assumptions about the task and environment.
We demonstrate its wide application to a set of over 130
language-conditioned manipulation tasks. In navigation and
locomotion, it is common to construct policies that are guided
by the future trajectories of the robot [1, 35]. In manipulation,
some works have explored flow-based guidance [15, 41, 16].
However, prior works only track task-specific points, such as
the end-effector of the robot, or the human hand. Instead, our
approach works with arbitrary points, including points on the
objects, thus providing richer information in the more general
settings. Finally, Vecerik et al. [48] proposes to utilize any-
point tracking for few-shot policy learning. This approach
does not learn trajectory models from data, but instead mainly
uses the tracker to perform visual servoing during test time.
This design choice requires more instrumentation, such as
separating the task into multiple stages, predicting the goal
locations of the points for each stage, and running the tracker
during inference time. In contrast, we present a much simpler
framework, enabling application in more diverse settings.
Video pre-training for control. Videos contain rich infor-
mation about behaviors and dynamics, which can help policy
learning. However, video pre-training remains challenging due
to the lack of action labels. One line of works first learns
an inverse dynamics model that predicts the action from
two adjacent frames and then labels the videos with pseudo
actions [39, 3, 47, 40]. However, the inverse dynamics model
is often trained on a limited action-labeled dataset and does
not generalize well, especially for continuous actions. Prior
works have also explored pre-train a feature representation
using various self-supervised objectives [43, 33, 28], but the
representation alone does not retain the temporal information


--- Page 3 ---
in videos. More recently, learning video prediction as pre-
training has shown promising results [12, 23, 4, 55, 13].
During policy learning, a video prediction model is used to
generate future subgoals and then a goal-conditioned policy
can be learned to reach the sub-goal. However, video pre-
diction models often result in hallucinations and unrealistic
physical motions. Furthermore, video models require extensive
computation, which is an issue, especially during inference
time. In contrast, our method models the trajectories of
the points, naturally incorporating inductive bias like object
permanence while requiring much less computation. This
enables our trajectory models to be run closed-loop during
policy execution. Furthermore, the trajectories provide dense
guidance to the policy as a motion prior.
Learning from Human Videos. Of particular interest, nu-
merous prior works have proposed learning from the rich
source of human videos [54, 45, 32, 2, 46, 50]. However, these
works often explicitly extract the hand pose or contact regions
from the human videos, thereby losing information about the
dynamics of the remaining objects. In contrast, our method
models the trajectories of arbitrary points and can learn from
both human videos and videos of a different robot.
III. PRELIMINARY
In this paper, we aim to learn robust control policies from
a small set of action-labeled demonstration trajectories. Our
central goal is to leverage the more scalable, unlabeled videos
as a data source for pre-training.
Imitation from demos and videos. To begin with, we denote
the action-free video dataset as To = {(τ (i)
o , ℓ(i))}No
i=1, where
ℓ(i) is the language instruction for the ith episode and τ (i)
o
=
{o(i)
t }T
t=1 denotes the observation-only trajectory consisting of
camera images. Similarly, we denote the demonstration dataset
as Ta = {(τ (i)
a , ℓ(i))}Na
i=1, where τ (i)
a
= {o(i)
t , a(i)
t }T
t=1 is the
action-labeled trajectory. During imitation learning, our goal
is to learn a policy πθ, parameterized by θ to mimic the expert
behavior by the following behavioral cloning objective:
π∗
θ = arg min
θ
E(ot,at,ℓ)∼Ta
h
L

πθ(ot, ℓ), at
i
,
(1)
where L is the loss function, which could be Mean Squared
Error (MSE) or cross-entropy loss.
Tracking Any Point (TAP). The recent advancements in
video tracking [17, 10, 11, 51, 57] enable us to track the
trajectory of each point in video frames without external
supervision. In this paper, we utilize the off-the-shelf tracker
proposed in [20]. Formally, given a sequence of images from a
video o1, ..., oT , any one of the time steps ¯t ∈[1, T], and a set
of points in that frame {p¯t,k}K
k=1, where p¯t,k = (x, y) is the
point coordinate in the camera frame, the task of tracking is to
predict the 2D camera-frame coordinates of the corresponding
points in every frame pt,k where t = 1 . . . T. In this paper,
we use the terms trajectory and track interchangeably to
refer to a sequence of 2D coordinates of any point, denoted
as (p1, . . . , pT ). We only model the 2D trajectories in the
camera frame so that we do not have to make additional
assumptions about multi-view cameras, or the availability of
depth, allowing future scaling to more diverse video datasets.
The tracker additionally predicts a binary visibility value vt,k
denoting whether the point is occluded at step t.
IV. METHOD
Videos contain a great deal of prior information about the
world, capturing physical dynamics, human behaviors, and
semantics that are invaluable for policy learning. Beyond just
learning representations from videos [43, 33, 28], we aim to
learn a model from videos to predict future states for guiding
a control policy. In this way, we can essentially decompose the
visuomotor policy learning challenge into two parts. The first
part is learning what to do next by generating future states as
concrete sub-goals, which is learned purely from videos. The
second part is learning to predict control actions to follow the
sub-goals, which require much less data to train compared to
learning policies end-to-end. With sufficient video pre-training,
we will be able to learn generalizable policies even from
limited action-labeled trajectories. Prior works [12, 23, 5] have
predominantly relied on pixel-level future frame prediction
as video pre-training. While video prediction is resource-
intensive during both training and inference stages, its focus on
reconstructing pixel-level details, which are often extraneous
to policy learning, can adversely affect the efficiency of
subsequent policy learning.
We propose Any-point Trajectory Modeling (ATM). As
illustrated in Figure 2, ATM is a two-stage framework: first
learn to predict future point trajectories in a video frame
as the pre-training with large-scale action-free videos, then
use the predicted trajectories to guide policy learning with
few-shot action-labeled demos. Our proposed method will be
comprehensively detailed in this section: In Sec. IV-A, we first
describe how to learn a point trajectory prediction model from
an action-free video dataset To. Then in Sec. IV-B, we outline
how we utilize the pre-trained track prediction model to learn
a track-guided policy from a limited action-labeled trajectory
datasets Ta.
A. Trajectory Modeling from Video Datasets
Our goal is to pre-train a model from videos that forecasts
the future point trajectories in a frame. More formally, given
an image observation ot at timestep t, any set of 2D query
points on the image frame pt = {pt,k}K
k=1, and a language
instruction ℓ, we learn a model pt:t+H = τθ(ot, pt, ℓ) that
predicts the coordinates of the query points in the future
H steps in the camera frame, where pt:t+H ∈RH×K×2.
To model the tracks, we propose a track transformer and
illustrate the architecture in Figure 2 (a).
a) Self-supervised Track Annotation.: Initially, we gen-
erate point trajectories from action-free videos for trajectory
modeling pre-training. As described in Sec. III, we employ
a vision tracker to pre-process videos and generate a tracking
dataset. For each video, we randomly sample a time step ¯t and
then randomly sample points on this frame and generate their
tracks by running the tracker. However, for a static camera,


--- Page 4 ---
. . .
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
Track Transformer
. . .
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
𝑡!
𝑡⋯
𝑡#
Language
Instruction
Action-free Video Dataset
image token
masked point
language token
track token
. . .
. . .
Action-labeled Demos
(b) Stage 2: Track-guided Policy Learning
(a) Stage 1: Any-point Trajectory Modeling
action
Track-guided Policy 𝜋
Track Transformer
Language
Instruction
Off-the-shelf 
Tracker
Fig. 2: Overview of our framework. (a) In the first stage, given an action-free video dataset, we first sample 2D points on one
video frame and track their trajectories throughout the video using a pre-trained tracker. We then train a track transformer to
predict future point trajectories given the current image observation, the language instruction, and the initial positions of the
points. For the transformer input, we replace the future point positions with masked values. (2) In the second stage, we learn
a track-guided policy to predict the control actions. Guidance from the predicted track enables us to learn robust policies from
only a few action-labeled demonstrations.
most of the points that are sampled randomly will be in the
background, thus providing little information when training
our track transformer. To address this, we adopt a heuristic
solution to filter out these static points: we first sample a
grid of n
×
n on frame ¯t and track the grid of points
across the whole of the video to obtain an initial set of tracks
τ ∈Rn2×T ×2. Subsequently, we filter points that have not
moved during the video by thresholding the variance of the
point positions over time. In the final step, we resample points
around the filtered locations and finally generate their positions
using the tracker.
b) Multimodal Track Modeling.: We formalize the future
forecasting problem as a multi-modal masked prediction prob-
lem: we aim to predict the future positions of each point, con-
ditioned on its current position, the current image observation,
and a language instruction of the task. We first encode different
modalities into a shared embedding space, each represented
by a few tokens. For the tracks, we mask out the future
positions of all points before encoding and then separately
encode each point into one token. For the language instruction,
we use a pre-trained BERT [9] encoder. For the images,
we split them into image patches and randomly masked out
50% of the patches. We then pass all tokens through a large
transformer model. Finally, we decode the track tokens into
future trajectories of the corresponding points. Additionally,
we reconstruct the image patches from the corresponding
tokens following He et al. [18] as an auxiliary task, which
we find useful for more complex tasks. Through this pre-
training process, our track transformer learns the motion prior
of particles within the video frames.
B. Track-guided Policy Learning
After training a track transformer to predict future tracks
based on observations, we can then learn policies guided by
these predicted trajectories.
a) Arbitrary Points Tracking.: During track transformer
pre-training, we can filter tracks without large movements.
However, using this heuristic requires knowing the future
positions of each point, which can be expensive to compute
during policy inference. Instead, we find it sufficient to simply
use a fixed set of 32 points on a grid for the policy. This
sampling method avoids the potential complexities of learning
key points or finding points to track [48] and works well
in practice. ATM is permutation invariant to the input set of
points, and we also find ATM to be robust to the distribution
of the points, allowing us to use a different point sampling
scheme from training for policy learning.
b) Track-guided Policy Learning.: A track-guided policy
π(at|ot, pt:t+H) takes input the current observation ot and the
predicted tracks pt:t+H and predict the actions. A simplified
illustration of our policy architecture is shown in Figure 3.
Our transformer policy architecture follows the architecture
in prior works [27, 21]. Although the predicted tracks alone
already provide rich information to predict the actions, we still
incorporate contextual image observations into our policy so
that no information is lost, as suggested in prior works [26].


--- Page 5 ---
predicted track tokens
image patch tokens
CLS token
MLP
Transformer
late fusion
early fusion
action
Fig. 3: A visual illustration of the architecture of the track-
guided policy. Given the current observation and the predicted
tracks from the frozen pre-trained track transformer, we train
a track-guided policy from a limited demonstration dataset.
We incorporate the track tokens both before and after fusion
with the image tokens (early fusion and late fusion) to ensure
that the guiding information from tracks can be effectively
integrated. Surprisingly, as the tracks already provide the fine-
grained subgoals, we find that the policy no longer needs lan-
guage instruction at this stage as task specification. Essentially,
the provided tracks have reduced the difficult policy learning
problems into a much easier sub-goal following problems,
reducing the policy into an inverse dynamics model. Our
track-guided policy is trained with MSE loss. Note that, the
weights of our policy model are randomly initialized rather
than copied from the pretrained Track Transformer like other
video-pretraining methods [33, 28], because of the aim to
separately study the task guidance capability of predicted tra-
jectories. A detailed architecture diagram and hyperparameters
are available in the appendix.
V. EXPERIMENTS
We perform experiments to answer the following questions:
• How does ATM compare with state-of-the-art video pre-
training and behaviour cloning baselines for learning
from action-free videos?
• Can ATM be used for learning from video data that are
out of the distribution of demonstration data?
Our experiments are split into three sections. In Sec. V-A, we
compare ATM with video pre-training baselines on over 130
language-conditioned manipulation tasks in simulation and
in the real world. In Sec. V-B, we show that ATM enables
effective learning from human videos. Finally, we present
ablation results in Sec. V-C.
A. Video Pre-training for Imitation Learning
Environments. We compare with baselines on over
one hundred language-conditioned manipulation tasks in the
LIBERO benchmark [27]. The benchmark is subdivided into
five suites, LIBERO-Spatial, LIBERO-Object, LIBERO-Goal,
LIBERO-Long, and LIBERO-90. Each suite has 10 tasks,
except LIBERO-90 which contains 90 tasks. Each task comes
with expert human demonstrations. LIBERO-Spatial contains
tasks with the same objects but different layouts; LIBERO-
Object has tasks with the same layouts but different objects;
LIBERO-Goal has tasks with the same object categories
and spatial layouts, but different goals; LIBERO-Long has
tasks with diverse object categories and layouts, and long-
horizon task goals; LIBERO-90 has extremely diverse object
categories, layouts and task goals.
Data. We compare with baselines on each suite separately.
All methods are trained on 10 action-labeled demonstration
trajectories and 50 action-free video demonstration trajectories
of the robot for each task, amounting to 500 videos for each
10-task suite. The demonstration dataset contains RGB images
from a third-person camera and a wrist camera, together with
gripper and joint states as observations. As each task is spec-
ified by a language instruction, we use the pre-trained BERT
network to obtain a task embedding [9]. Image resolution is
128 × 128 and the action space is 7-dimension, representing
the translation, rotation, and aperture of the end-effector.
Baselines. We compare with the following baselines:
1) BC denotes the vanilla behavioral cloning which trains
a policy exclusively using the limited action-labeled
expert demonstrations, without using the video dataset.
It uses a policy architecture identical to ATM except
that the particle trajectories are masked to be zero and it
instead takes language embedding as task specification.
BC baseline can also be considered as an ablation for
policy learning without action-free videos. The specific
architecture and losses for training the BC policy can
vary. We use BC to denote a transformer policy trained
using MSE loss by default and compare with diffusion
policy separately towards the end of this section.
2) R3M-finetune [33] uses a contrastive learning objec-
tive for learning representation that aligns video and
language with a combination of time contrastive losses,
L1 regularization, and language consistency losses. We
adopt the publicly released Ego4D pre-trained weights
and fine-tune the weights on our in-domain video dataset
To, to initialize the behavioral cloning policy’s visual
encoder. During policy training, we also further fine-
tune the R3M backbone with the behavioral cloning
loss. While this method captures priors from action-free
videos through representation learning, the visual repre-
sentation lacks knowledge about the transition dynamics
critical to decision-making.
3) VPT [3] first trains an inverse dynamics model from the
action-labeled trajectories Ta and then uses it to predict
pseudo action labels for the video dataset. With these
pseudo-labels, a policy is then trained with behavioral
cloning. This method requires the inverse dynamics
model to be robust to a wide distribution of input
observation, which can be difficult to learn from the
limited demonstrations.


--- Page 6 ---
LIBERO-Spatial
LIBERO-Object
LIBERO-Goal
LIBERO-Long
(a) Visualization of the tasks in the LIBERO benchmark
(b) Comparison on the performance
pick up the black bowl in the drawer and place it on the plate
pick up the butter and place it in the basket
put the bowl on top of the cabinet
put the yellow and white mug in the microwave and close it
Fig. 4: We compare with state-of-the-art video pre-training methods on language-conditioned manipulation tasks in the
LIBERO benchmark [27]. (a) Visualization of the LIBERO tasks separated into four suites, focusing on different aspects
of the manipulation policies in spatial reasoning, object reasoning, task understanding, and performing long-horizon tasks. (b)
Quantitative comparisons on different suites. We additionally compare baselines with fast computation on a task suite containing
90 tasks (i.e. LIBERO-90). ATM outperforms the baselines in all tasks and excels in LIBERO-Goal and LIBERO-Long.
4) UniPi [12, 23, 5] trains a text-conditioned video diffu-
sion model to generate a temporally fine-grained video
plan from an initial frame and a language instruction.
During policy learning, UniPi trains an inverse dynamics
model with action-labeled data. We base our implemen-
tation off of the UniPi implementation in Ko et al. [23].
While both UniPi and ATM leverage a policy condi-
tioned on future subgoals, a trajectory representation
decouples motion from other pixel-based information
and makes policy learning much easier. Please see the
Appendix where we perform additional comprehensive
comparisons of different variations of UniPi.
Results. We present the main results in Figure 4. We see that
by bridging the video data and policy learning with the struc-
tured representation of point trajectories, ATM (our method)
significantly surpasses various strong baselines in video pre-
training, achieving an average success rate of 63% compared to
the highest success rate of 37% by previous methods, marking
an improvement of over 80%. The comparison of BC with
ATM shows that learning from additional videos provides use-
ful information for policy learning. VPT performs poorly as we
empirically observed that the pseudo-action labels predicted
by VPT generally show large errors on the video dataset.
UniPi fails on more complex as video prediction models are
not physically grounded and often generate future frames
that are not physically feasible, such as cases where robots
disappear from the image. ATM shows surprisingly superior
performance on long-horizon tasks and tasks that require an
understanding of goals. We attribute this performance gain
to ATM’s formulation, which utilizes explicit future particle


--- Page 7 ---
Task 1: Squeeze the mustard on the carrot
Task 2: Put the carrot into the basket
Task 3: Pour the cup into the bin
Task 4: Put the spoon into the bowl
Task 5: Put the tomato into the bowl
base 
camera
wrist 
camera
Policy rollout:
Put the tomato into the bowl
time
Fig. 5: Real robot experiments on a dining table setup consisting of five tasks. The left figure shows our real-world setup and
the tasks. The top right figure shows an example of the predicted particle trajectories and the policy execution, which closely
follows the predicted trajectories. From the quantitative results, we can see that ATM shows significant improvements over
state-of-the-art video pre-training baselines on average.
trajectories as subgoals. At each time step, ATM predicts a
future trajectory goal based on the current observation. In
comparison to the static natural language instructions used by
other methods, which do not change throughout the episode,
ATM’s closed-loop future trajectory provides clear guidance
as to what the policy needs to do next. Please see our video
for failure cases of a video prediction model.
Universality of ATM on Different Policy Classes. The
benefit of the predicted trajectories can also be shown for state-
of-the-art policy class such as diffusion policy [8], as shown
in Figure 6. Here, ATM Diffusion Policy adds the predicted
future tracks as additional condition to the policy class, while
keeping everything else the same. We see that ATM consis-
tently improves the performance of diffusion policy across
all the suites, achieving the highest scores on the LIBERO
benchmark. More details can be found in Appendix.
Real World Setup. We conduct a language-conditioned
manipulation experiment in the real world to further strengthen
our claim. As illustrated in Figure 5, we learn policies for a
6-DOF UR5 robot arm using human expert demonstrations
collected with the GELLO teleoperation system [53]. The
action space is joint position control and gripper state. The
observations include two RGB images from two RealSense
cameras. To compensate for the partial observation, we stack
the most recent two frames as the input of agents. We do not
feed proprioception states into agents because it is reported
that imitation policies tend to overfit them and ignore the
visual inputs, leading to worse online rollout performance [30,
26]. We collect a total of 50 action-labeled trajectories and
250 action-free demonstration videos (by simply removing
the actions from the collected action-labeled demonstrations).
From the quantitative results in Figure 5, we see consistent
trends that ATM outperforms BC and other video pre-training
baselines by a significant margin.
Spatial
Object
Goal
Long
90
Overall
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Diffusion Policy
ATM Diffusion Policy (Ours)
Fig. 6: We implement ATM Diffusion Policy by adding the
predicted future trajectories as additional conditioning and
show consistent improvement over the base diffusion policies
across the benchmark suites.
TABLE I: Average success rates of human-to-robot exper-
iments. ATM trained with human videos significantly out-
performs BC and ATM trained with only 10 robot videos,
demonstrating the cross-embodiment capability of ATM.
Method
Teleoperation
demos
Human
videos
fold cloth
put tomato
sweep toys
BC
"
%
0%
10%
30%
ATM
"
%
0%
0%
13%
ATM
"
"
63%
63%
60%
B. Human-to-robot and Robot-to-robot Transfer
By modeling the low-level any-point trajectories, ATM
enables learning from cross-embodiment videos of humans
or a different robot performing the task. This facilitates the


--- Page 8 ---
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
(a) Task: Fold the cloth and pull it to the right
step 0
(b) Task: Put the tomato into the pan and close the door
(c) Task: Put the tomato into the pan and close the door
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
step 0
step 1
step 2
Fig. 7: Learning robotic skills from human videos for three tasks. We collect 100 videos of a human performing the tasks
directly and 10 teleoperation demonstration trajectories. Each row from the top to the bottom shows three snapshots from the
human videos, ATM trained without the human videos, and ATM trained with the human videos. By comparison, we can see
that human videos are critical in learning accurate trajectory prediction and enable the policy to successfully perform the task.
Franka videos
ATM – Franka only
ATM – UR only
ATM - Franka ⟹ UR
160 Franka Videos
UR5 policy learning
UR5 Pick-Place Can
Fig. 8: Cross-morphology skill transfer for a pick-and-place task. Here, we collect 160 action-free videos of a Franka arm
and 10 action-labeled demonstrations from a UR arm, with the final goal of learning a UR policy. We compare a vanilla BC
baseline with ATM trained using types of data: using only the 10 UR videos, using only the 160 Franka videos, and using
both Franka and UR videos (Franka ⇒UR). In the right plot, we observe that the additional cross-embodiment data led to
significantly better results. Surprisingly, even if the trajectory model is only trained using Franka videos, it exhibits much better
performance than the BC without the Franka videos.
use of more scalable data sources. To verify this, we present
the results of learning from human videos in Fig. 7, with
the quantitative results presented in Table I, and the results
of cross-robot transfer in Fig. 8. We compare the following
methods: (1) Learning behavior cloning policies only on the
action-labeled data (2) ATM, using a track transformer trained
only on the limited action-labeled robot data, and (3) ATM,
using a track transformer trained on both the action-free human
and action-labeled robot data. Experiments show that training
the trajectory model on additional cross-embodiment videos
makes the trajectory prediction more robust and accurate,
significantly improving policy learning. On the other hand, as
the number of action-labeled trajectories is small, BC baselines
that only use action-labeled trajectories fail. Please refer to the
videos on our website for better visualization.
C. Ablation Analysis
We conduct a series of ablation experiments in simulation
to demonstrate the effect of our design choices. These include
the number of action-labeled trajectories needed for policy
learning, the effect of the trajectory prediction horizon, image
masking, and late track fusion. Besides, we also investigate
the universality of ATM for different policy models.


--- Page 9 ---
4
10
20
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
Success Rate (%)
LIBERO-Spatial
4
10
20
50
55
60
65
70
LIBERO-Object
4
10
20
training demos (%)
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
Success Rate (%)
LIBERO-Goal
4
10
20
training demos (%)
15
20
25
30
35
40
LIBERO-Long
BC w/ 20%
BC w/ 100%
ATM
Fig. 9: Success rate of our policy trained with 4%, 10%
and 20% action-labeled demos. Our policy trained with only
4% demos performs comparably to BC baseline with 20%
demos on LIBERO-Spatial, Object, and GOAL, and even
better on LIBERO-Spatial. When trained on 20% demos, our
performance approaches BC with all training data.
Effect of the number of action-labeled trajectories. We
investigate the impact of track length on our policy input by
training our policy using predicted tracks of varying lengths:
4, 8, 16, 32, and 64 steps. As illustrated in Figure 10, a track
length of 16 yields optimal performance on average. Smaller
track lengths significantly decrease performance, while a track
length of 0 reduces ATM to the behavior cloning baseline with-
out any benefit of pre-training. On the other hand, larger track
lengths can also negatively impact performance, especially on
more challenging tasks such as LIBERO-Long and LIBERO-
Goal, as longer track predictions are noisier and less relevant
for achieving short-horizon subgoals. Determining the optimal
time horizon for subgoals could be an interesting avenue for
future research.
Effect of track length. The track length of our pre-trained
track transformer is 16 and we utilize all 16 points of each
track by default as input for our policy. In this experiment, we
investigate the effect of track length of our policy input, by
training our policy with the predicted tracks truncated into
4, 8, and 16 steps. The results in Figure 10 demonstrate
that longer tracks result in higher success rates in general,
except LIBERO-Object where track length = 8 yields the
best performance. In particular, reducing track length leads
to larger performance drops on LIBERO-Goal and LIBERO-
Long. These tasks require a comprehensive understanding of
the task goal. Longer tracks provide more detailed and specific
subgoals for each task, which is crucial for guiding the agent’s
movements and actions in subsequent stage. Conversely, for
LIBERO-Object, which emphasizes precision operations over
4
8
16
32
64
track length
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Success Rate (%)
LIBERO-Spatial
LIBERO-Object
LIBERO-Goal
LIBERO-Long
Fig. 10: We plot the success rates of the policies learned with
predicted trajectories of different lengths. Generally, longer
trajectory length improves the performance, but the benefit
tends to plateau after 16.
understanding of the task goal, a policy with a length of 16
underperforms slightly compared to the model with a length
of 8. We hypothesize that the longer tracks might interfere
with the learning of inverse dynamics due to noise. This also
supports our approach of employing tracks both as subgoal
conditions and in leveraging the nature of inverse dynamics.
Effect of image masking in track transformer. When train-
ing the track transformer, we randomly mask out patches in the
images and learn to reconstruct them as an auxiliary task. We
conduct an ablation study by removing the image masking loss
and comparing it against our standard configuration, where
we randomly mask out 50% of the image masks. In Table II,
the results reveal a slight decline in policy performance when
image masking is omitted, suggesting image masking can
be a useful auxiliary task, except on LIBERO-Spatial. We
hypothesize that the auxiliary loss encourages the model to
jointly reason about different regions of an image observation.
This bias may not be critical for the Libero-spatial tasks
because the specific spatial location of interest is already fully
specified in the language instruction (e.g., all tasks have the
format of ”pick up the black bowl at [some spatial location]”).
Effect of early and late fusion in policy architecture.
As shown in Figure 3, the predicted tracks are fed into
the policy both before and after the transformer architecture
within the policy, which we call early fusion and late fusion
respectively. We conduct ablation studies by removing these
two track inputs. The results are shown in Table III. We can
see that removing the late fusion leads to the most significant
performance drop; on LIBERO-Goal, w/ only early fusion
performs similarly to other baselines, whereas only late fusion
performs marginally worse than our full method. This suggests
a late fusion of the predicted tracks acts as useful subgoals
that help the policy better understand the tasks in a multi-task
learning setting. The subgoal prediction is more robust as it is
trained on a larger video dataset.


--- Page 10 ---
TABLE II: Ablation study on image masking of track transformer, where “w/o image masking” represents that we do not mask
out image patches during track transformer training and “w/ image masking” means we randomly mask 50% patches. We can
see that mask image modeling in track transformer improves the policy performance.
Image Mask Ratio
Spatial
Object
Goal
Long
w/o image masking
69.17 ± 6.38
65.00 ± 3.89
74.33 ± 3.66
30.83 ± 11.43
w/ image masking (default)
68.50 ± 1.78
68.00 ± 6.18
77.83 ± 0.82
39.33 ± 15.80
TABLE III: Ablation study on the policy architecture. We explore the effect of the tracks fed into the policy in two positions:
transformer input (early fusion) and MLP head (late fusion), as illustrated in Figure 3.
early fusion
late fusion
Spatial
Object
Goal
Long
"
%
44.67 ± 1.84
56.67 ± 3.09
5.33 ± 0.24
22.33 ± 4.94
%
"
65.50 ± 3.89
60.00 ± 1.47
72.83 ± 4.73
42.76 ± 14.62
"
"
68.50 ± 1.78
68.00 ± 6.18
77.83 ± 0.82
39.33 ± 15.80
VI. LIMITATIONS
One limitation is that our approach still relies on a set
of action-labeled demonstration trajectories for mapping to
actions, which limits the generalization of the learned policies.
Future works can consider learning the trajectory-following
policies using reinforcement learning so that no additional
demonstration data are needed. Another limitation of our
method is that the video dataset we use in this paper only
contains small domain gaps. Learning from in-the-wild video
dataset poses additional challenges such as multi-modal distri-
bution, diverse camera motions, and sub-optimal motions. We
leave these extensions for future work.
VII. CONCLUSIONS
In this work, we present an any-point trajectory modeling
framework as video pre-training that effectively learns behav-
iors and dynamics from action-free video datasets. After pre-
training, by learning a track-guided policy, we demonstrate
significant improvements over prior state-of-the-art approaches
and show effective learning from out-of-distribution human
videos. We show that a particle-based representation is in-
terpretable, structured, and naturally incorporates physical
inductive biases such as object permanence. We hope our
works will open doors to more exciting directions in learning
from videos with structured representations.
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was supported in part by the BAIR Industrial
Consortium, and the InnoHK of the Government of the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region via the Hong Kong
Centre for Logistics Robotics. This work is also supported
by the Ministry of Science and Technology of the People’s
Republic of China, the 2030 Innovation Megaprojects “Pro-
gram on New Generation Artificial Intelligence” (Grant No.
2021AAA0150000), and the National Key R&D Program of
China (2022ZD0161700). This work is done when Chuan Wen
is visiting UC Berkeley.
REFERENCES
[1] A Pedro Aguiar and Joao P Hespanha.
Trajectory-
tracking
and
path-following
of
underactuated
au-
tonomous vehicles with parametric modeling uncertainty.
IEEE transactions on automatic control, 52(8):1362–
1379, 2007.
[2] S Bahl, R Mendonca, L Chen, U Jain, and D Pathak.
Affordances from human videos 417 as a versatile rep-
resentation for robotics. In CVPR, 2023.
[3] Bowen
Baker,
Ilge
Akkaya,
Peter
Zhokov,
Joost
Huizinga, Jie Tang, Adrien Ecoffet, Brandon Houghton,
Raul Sampedro, and Jeff Clune. Video pretraining (vpt):
Learning to act by watching unlabeled online videos.
Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 35:
24639–24654, 2022.
[4] Homanga Bharadhwaj, Abhinav Gupta, Shubham Tul-
siani, and Vikash Kumar.
Zero-shot robot manipu-
lation from passive human videos.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2302.02011, 2023.
[5] Kevin Black, Mitsuhiko Nakamoto, Pranav Atreya,
Homer Walke, Chelsea Finn, Aviral Kumar, and Sergey
Levine.
Zero-shot robotic manipulation with pre-
trained image-editing diffusion models. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2310.10639, 2023.
[6] Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yev-
gen Chebotar, Joseph Dabis, Chelsea Finn, Keerthana
Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Jasmine
Hsu, et al.
Rt-1: Robotics transformer for real-world
control at scale. arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.06817, 2022.
[7] Tom Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie Sub-
biah, Jared D Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind Nee-
lakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell,
et al. Language models are few-shot learners. Advances
in neural information processing systems, 33:1877–1901,
2020.
[8] Cheng Chi, Siyuan Feng, Yilun Du, Zhenjia Xu, Eric
Cousineau, Benjamin CM Burchfiel, and Shuran Song.
Diffusion Policy: Visuomotor Policy Learning via Action
Diffusion.
In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and


--- Page 11 ---
Systems, Daegu, Republic of Korea, July 2023.
doi:
10.15607/RSS.2023.XIX.026.
[9] Jacob Devlin, Ming-Wei Chang, Kenton Lee, and
Kristina Toutanova.
BERT: Pre-training of deep bidi-
rectional transformers for language understanding.
In
Jill Burstein, Christy Doran, and Thamar Solorio, edi-
tors, Proceedings of the 2019 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1
(Long and Short Papers), pages 4171–4186, Minneapo-
lis, Minnesota, June 2019. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
[10] Carl Doersch, Ankush Gupta, Larisa Markeeva, Adri`a
Recasens, Lucas Smaira, Yusuf Aytar, Jo˜ao Carreira,
Andrew Zisserman, and Yi Yang. Tap-vid: A benchmark
for tracking any point in a video, 2023.
[11] Carl Doersch, Yi Yang, Mel Vecerik, Dilara Gokay,
Ankush Gupta, Yusuf Aytar, Joao Carreira, and Andrew
Zisserman.
Tapir: Tracking any point with per-frame
initialization and temporal refinement, 2023.
[12] Yilun Du, Sherry Yang, Bo Dai, Hanjun Dai, Ofir
Nachum, Joshua B Tenenbaum, Dale Schuurmans, and
Pieter Abbeel.
Learning universal policies via text-
guided video generation. In Thirty-seventh Conference
on Neural Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[13] Alejandro Escontrela, Ademi Adeniji, Wilson Yan, Ajay
Jain, Xue Bin Peng, Ken Goldberg, Youngwoon Lee,
Danijar Hafner, and Pieter Abbeel.
Video prediction
models as rewards for reinforcement learning.
Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2023.
[14] Hao-Shu Fang, Hongjie Fang, Zhenyu Tang, Jirong Liu,
Chenxi Wang, Junbo Wang, Haoyi Zhu, and Cewu Lu.
Rh20t: A comprehensive robotic dataset for learning
diverse skills in one-shot. In Towards Generalist Robots:
Learning Paradigms for Scalable Skill Acquisition@
CoRL2023, 2023.
[15] Ankit Goyal, Arsalan Mousavian, Chris Paxton, Yu-Wei
Chao, Brian Okorn, Jia Deng, and Dieter Fox.
Ifor:
Iterative flow minimization for robotic object rearrange-
ment. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 14787–
14797, 2022.
[16] Jiayuan Gu, Sean Kirmani, Paul Wohlhart, Yao Lu,
Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Kanishka Rao, Wenhao Yu,
Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Zhuo Xu, et al.
Rt-trajectory: Robotic task generalization via hindsight
trajectory sketches.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01977,
2023.
[17] Adam W Harley, Zhaoyuan Fang, and Katerina Fragki-
adaki. Particle video revisited: Tracking through occlu-
sions using point trajectories. In European Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 59–75. Springer, 2022.
[18] Kaiming He, Xinlei Chen, Saining Xie, Yanghao Li, Piotr
Doll´ar, and Ross Girshick.
Masked autoencoders are
scalable vision learners. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 16000–16009, 2022.
[19] Zixuan Huang, Xingyu Lin, and David Held.
Mesh-
based dynamics model with occlusion reasoning for cloth
manipulation. In Robotics: Science and Systems (RSS),
2022.
[20] Nikita Karaev, Ignacio Rocco, Benjamin Graham, Natalia
Neverova, Andrea Vedaldi, and Christian Rupprecht. Co-
tracker: It is better to track together. arXiv:2307.07635,
2023.
[21] Wonjae Kim, Bokyung Son, and Ildoo Kim. Vilt: Vision-
and-language transformer without convolution or region
supervision, 2021.
[22] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi
Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson, Tete Xiao,
Spencer Whitehead, Alexander C. Berg, Wan-Yen Lo,
Piotr Dollar, and Ross Girshick. Segment anything. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision (ICCV), pages 4015–4026, October
2023.
[23] Po-Chen
Ko,
Jiayuan
Mao,
Yilun
Du,
Shao-Hua
Sun, and Joshua B Tenenbaum.
Learning to Act
from Actionless Video through Dense Correspondences.
arXiv:2310.08576, 2023.
[24] Yunzhu
Li,
Shuang
Li,
Vincent
Sitzmann,
Pulkit
Agrawal, and Antonio Torralba.
3d neural scene rep-
resentations for visuomotor control.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2107.04004, 2021.
[25] Xingyu Lin, Yufei Wang, Zixuan Huang, and David
Held. Learning visible connectivity dynamics for cloth
smoothing. In Conference on Robot Learning, 2021.
[26] Xingyu Lin, John So, Sashwat Mahalingam, Fangchen
Liu, and Pieter Abbeel. Spawnnet: Learning generaliz-
able visuomotor skills from pre-trained networks. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2307.03567, 2023.
[27] Bo Liu, Yifeng Zhu, Chongkai Gao, Yihao Feng, Yuke
Zhu, Peter Stone, et al. Libero: Benchmarking knowledge
transfer for lifelong robot learning.
In Thirty-seventh
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
Datasets and Benchmarks Track, 2023.
[28] Yecheng Jason Ma, Shagun Sodhani, Dinesh Jayaraman,
Osbert Bastani, Vikash Kumar, and Amy Zhang. VIP:
Towards universal visual reward and representation via
value-implicit pre-training. In The Eleventh International
Conference on Learning Representations, 2023.
[29] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei,
Silvio Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Mart´ın-Mart´ın.
What matters in learning from offline human demon-
strations
for
robot
manipulation.
arXiv
preprint
arXiv:2108.03298, 2021.
[30] Ajay Mandlekar, Danfei Xu, Josiah Wong, Soroush
Nasiriany, Chen Wang, Rohun Kulkarni, Li Fei-Fei,
Silvio Savarese, Yuke Zhu, and Roberto Mart´ın-Mart´ın.
What matters in learning from offline human demon-
strations for robot manipulation.
In arXiv preprint
arXiv:2108.03298, 2021.


--- Page 12 ---
[31] Lucas Manuelli, Yunzhu Li, Pete Florence, and Russ
Tedrake.
Keypoints into the future: Self-supervised
correspondence in model-based reinforcement learning,
2020.
[32] Russell Mendonca, Shikhar Bahl, and Deepak Pathak.
Structured world models from human videos. In RSS,
2023.
[33] Suraj Nair, Aravind Rajeswaran, Vikash Kumar, Chelsea
Finn, and Abhinav Gupta.
R3m: A universal visual
representation for robot manipulation. In Conference on
Robot Learning, pages 892–909. PMLR, 2023.
[34] Abhishek Padalkar, Acorn Pooley, Ajinkya Jain, Alex
Bewley, Alex Herzog, Alex Irpan, Alexander Khazatsky,
Anant Rai, Anikait Singh, Anthony Brohan, et al. Open
x-embodiment: Robotic learning datasets and rt-x mod-
els. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.08864, 2023.
[35] Xue Bin Peng, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine, and Michiel
Van de Panne.
Deepmimic: Example-guided deep re-
inforcement learning of physics-based character skills.
ACM Transactions On Graphics (TOG), 37(4):1–14,
2018.
[36] Zengyi Qin, Kuan Fang, Yuke Zhu, Li Fei-Fei, and Silvio
Savarese.
Keto: Learning keypoint representations for
tool manipulation. In 2020 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 7278–
7285. IEEE, 2020.
[37] Adam Rashid, Satvik Sharma, Chung Min Kim, Justin
Kerr, Lawrence Yunliang Chen, Angjoo Kanazawa, and
Ken Goldberg. Language embedded radiance fields for
zero-shot task-oriented grasping. In Conference on Robot
Learning, pages 178–200. PMLR, 2023.
[38] Scott
Reed,
Konrad
Zolna,
Emilio
Parisotto,
Ser-
gio Gomez Colmenarejo, Alexander Novikov, Gabriel
Barth-Maron, Mai Gimenez, Yury Sulsky, Jackie Kay,
Jost Tobias Springenberg, et al. A generalist agent. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2205.06175, 2022.
[39] Karl Schmeckpeper, Annie Xie, Oleh Rybkin, Stephen
Tian, Kostas Daniilidis, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea
Finn. Learning predictive models from observation and
interaction, 2019.
[40] Dominik Schmidt and Minqi Jiang.
Learning to act
without actions.
In The Twelfth International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations, 2024.
URL https:
//openreview.net/forum?id=rvUq3cxpDF.
[41] Daniel Seita, Yufei Wang, Sarthak J Shetty, Edward Yao
Li, Zackory Erickson, and David Held.
Toolflownet:
Robotic manipulation with tools via predicting tool flow
from point clouds. In Conference on Robot Learning,
pages 1038–1049. PMLR, 2023.
[42] Younggyo Seo, Kimin Lee, Stephen James, and Pieter
Abbeel.
Reinforcement learning with action-free pre-
training from videos, 2022.
[43] Pierre Sermanet, Corey Lynch, Yevgen Chebotar, Jas-
mine Hsu, Eric Jang, Stefan Schaal, Sergey Levine,
and Google Brain.
Time-contrastive networks: Self-
supervised learning from video.
In 2018 IEEE inter-
national conference on robotics and automation (ICRA),
pages 1134–1141. IEEE, 2018.
[44] Pierre Sermanet, Corey Lynch, Yevgen Chebotar, Jas-
mine Hsu, Eric Jang, Stefan Schaal, Sergey Levine,
and Google Brain.
Time-contrastive networks: Self-
supervised learning from video.
In 2018 IEEE inter-
national conference on robotics and automation (ICRA),
pages 1134–1141. IEEE, 2018.
[45] Lin Shao, Toki Migimatsu, Qiang Zhang, Karen Yang,
and Jeannette Bohg. Concept2robot: Learning manipu-
lation concepts from instructions and human demonstra-
tions. The International Journal of Robotics Research,
40(12-14):1419–1434, 2021.
[46] Kenneth Shaw, Shikhar Bahl, and Deepak Pathak.
Videodex: Learning dexterity from internet videos.
In
Conference on Robot Learning, pages 654–665. PMLR,
2023.
[47] Faraz Torabi, Garrett Warnell, and Peter Stone. Behav-
ioral cloning from observation, 2018.
[48] Mel Vecerik, Carl Doersch, Yi Yang, Todor Davchev,
Yusuf Aytar, Guangyao Zhou, Raia Hadsell, Lourdes
Agapito, and Jon Scholz. Robotap: Tracking arbitrary
points for few-shot visual imitation. arXiv, 2023.
[49] Homer Rich Walke, Kevin Black, Tony Z Zhao, Quan
Vuong, Chongyi Zheng, Philippe Hansen-Estruch, An-
dre Wang He, Vivek Myers, Moo Jin Kim, Max Du,
et al.
Bridgedata v2: A dataset for robot learning at
scale. In Conference on Robot Learning, pages 1723–
1736. PMLR, 2023.
[50] Chen Wang, Linxi Fan, Jiankai Sun, Ruohan Zhang,
Li Fei-Fei, Danfei Xu, Yuke Zhu, and Anima Anand-
kumar. Mimicplay: Long-horizon imitation learning by
watching human play.
In 7th Annual Conference on
Robot Learning, 2023.
[51] Qianqian Wang, Yen-Yu Chang, Ruojin Cai, Zhengqi
Li, Bharath Hariharan, Aleksander Holynski, and Noah
Snavely.
Tracking everything everywhere all at once,
2023.
[52] Chuan Wen, Jianing Qian, Jierui Lin, Jiaye Teng, Dinesh
Jayaraman, and Yang Gao.
Fighting fire with fire:
Avoiding dnn shortcuts through priming. In International
Conference on Machine Learning, pages 23723–23750.
PMLR, 2022.
[53] Philipp Wu, Yide Shentu, Zhongke Yi, Xingyu Lin, and
Pieter Abbeel. Gello: A general, low-cost, and intuitive
teleoperation framework for robot manipulators. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2309.13037, 2023.
[54] Haoyu Xiong, Quanzhou Li, Yun-Chun Chen, Homanga
Bharadhwaj, Samarth Sinha, and Animesh Garg. Learn-
ing by watching: Physical imitation of manipulation
skills from human videos.
In 2021 IEEE/RSJ Inter-
national Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems
(IROS), pages 7827–7834. IEEE, 2021.
[55] Mengjiao
Yang,
Yilun
Du,
Kamyar
Ghasemipour,
Jonathan Tompson, Dale Schuurmans, and Pieter Abbeel.
Learning interactive real-world simulators. arXiv preprint


--- Page 13 ---
arXiv:2310.06114, 2023.
[56] Tianhao Zhang, Zoe McCarthy, Owen Jow, Dennis Lee,
Xi Chen, Ken Goldberg, and Pieter Abbeel.
Deep
imitation learning for complex manipulation tasks from
virtual reality teleoperation. In 2018 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages
5628–5635. IEEE, 2018.
[57] Yang Zheng, Adam W Harley, Bokui Shen, Gordon
Wetzstein, and Leonidas J Guibas. Pointodyssey: A large-
scale synthetic dataset for long-term point tracking. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference
on Computer Vision, pages 19855–19865, 2023.


--- Page 14 ---
APPENDIX A
ADDITIONAL EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Simulation Experiments
Numerical results. We report the numeric values for the
success rates on LIBERO benchmark in Table V. All methods
use 20% of the demonstration trajectories except the oracle.
See Sec. A-B for details about the comparisons on UniPi and
UniPi-Replan.
Attention map visualization of track-guided policy. To
demonstrate how tracks guide the policy, we visualize the
attention maps between the spatial CLS token and RGB
tokens in the spatial transformer of BC and our method.
Figure 11 demonstrates that our method effectively focuses
on the relevant spatial regions, as specified by the textual
instructions. Specifically, it attends to the cream cheese, bowl,
and wine bottle in the respective example tasks, while BC is
usually distracted by the irrelevant regions, highlighting the
superior capability of the tracks as better task prompts.
B. Discussions on the UniPi Baselines
UniPi [12] proposes to train a language-conditioned video
diffusion model fθ during video pre-training. During policy
learning, given the initial image observation o0 and the lan-
guage l, UniPi first generates all future frames ˜o1, . . . ˜oT −1 =
fθ(o0, l) and then learns an inverse dynamics model that pre-
dicts the action at each time step at = π(ot, ˜ot+1). UniPi then
executes the actions open-loop. However, training a diffusion
model to predict the full video can be computation intensive,
As such, the UniPi implementation in our paper follows the
one in Ko et al. [23], where we predict N = 7 future frames
as the sub-goals for the policy, denoted as ˜o1, . . . ˜oN. During
training, we evenly sample N frames in an episode for training
the video prediction model. During policy learning, we train a
goal-conditioned policy π(at, done|ot, ˜oi), where i ∈1, . . . N
is the image sub-goal and t denotes the current timestep. The
policy additionally predicts a done flag to determine when it
should switch from the current sub-goal ˜oi to the next sub-
goal ˜oi+1. ATM’s superiority over UniPi can be attributed
to two reasons. First, ATM uses a more structured sub-goal
representation of point trajectories. Second, ATM performs
closed-loop inference, proposing a new sub-goal at each time
step, while UniPi’s video diffusion process is too slow to be
referenced at every time step.
To train the UniPi policy, we sample oi from a future frame
ot where t ∈[t, t + tmax]. We choose tmax for each task
suite (tmax = 16 for LIBERO-Object and LIBERO-Spatial,
tmax = 50 for LIBERO-Goal and LIBERO-Long). To mitigate
dataset imbalance when learning the done flag, we sample oi as
the next frame 10% of the time. We perform MSE regression
on both the action at and done.
In order to decouple the two advantages of ATM over
UniPi additionally compare with a UniPi variation where
we train the video prediction model to predict a fixed time
step into the future ˜ot+H = fθ(ot) for every H steps of
policy execution, where H = 8. As this variation replans the
TABLE IV: Computation cost and inference time for different
methods on a V100 GPU. ATM performs trajectory generation
instead of predicting high-dimensional frames, making it the
most computationally efficient and feasible for closed-loop
control. UniPi employs a video diffusion model for open-loop
future goal generation at the beginning, demanding signifi-
cantly higher computational resources. UniPi-Replan generates
fewer frames than UniPi using a smaller model, resulting in
marginally faster generation. However, its use in closed-loop
control remains computationally prohibitive.
Computation
Close-Loop
Open-Loop
ATM
UniPi-Replan
UniPi
TFLOPS per generation
1.56
13.09
39.29
Time per generation (s)
0.015
4.51
8.14
sub-goal more frequently, we call this method UniPi-Replan,
similar to the implementation in [5]. The results are shown in
Table V. Surprisingly, we found that this variation performs
even worse than UniPi. We thus draw the conclusion
that a structured sub-goal representation can be much
more effective than an image sub-goal. The reason is that
predicting an image goal at a fixed future time step can be
a difficult objective for the video prediction model, leading
to inconsistent subgoals. Please refer to the failure videos of
various baselines on our website. Additionally, this method
requires heavy computation. A comparison of the computation
needed is shown in Table IV. Due to the computation cost, we
only evaluate UniPi-Replan on LIBERO-Object and LIBERO-
Goal and report the average success across 10 trials on one
policy training random seed.
C. Applying ATM to Diffusion Policy
In addition to the transformer policy adopted from the
original LIBERO paper [27], our ATM can also be integrated
with the state-of-the-art Diffusion Policy [8]. Specifically,
we implement an ATM Diffusion Policy by using predicted
tracks as input conditions. Both the standard and ATM-based
Diffusion policies are trained with 20% of the data from
LIBERO, in the same setting as the experiment in Figure 4.
As shown in Table VI, the standard Diffusion Policy
achieves impressive results on the LIBERO benchmark, even
with limited training data, confirming its status as the state-of-
the-art imitation policy. Moreover, the ATM Diffusion Policy
consistently outperforms the standard model, highlighting our
framework’s versatility and effectiveness across different pol-
icy architectures.
D. Human-to-robot Transfer Details
To demonstrate the potential of ATM to leverage out-of-
domain videos, we design human-to-robot transfer tasks in
three different settings: 1) deformable object: fold the cloth
and pull it to the right, 2) long horizon: put the tomato into
the pan and close the cabinet door, and 3) tool using: use the
broom to sweep the toys into the dustpan and put it in front
of the dustpan. We collect 10 robot teleportation trajectories


--- Page 15 ---
put the cream cheese
in the bowl 
put the bowl on 
top of the cabinet
put the wine bottle
on the rack
BC
Ours
Fig. 11: The attention maps of BC and Ours in the spatial transformer. We extract the attention weights between spatial CLS
tokens and RGB tokens, highlighting the policy’s focus on specific spatial regions during decision-making. The heatmaps reveal
our policy’s targeted attention on task-relevant areas, in contrast to BC’s tendency to focus on irrelevant backgrounds. This
underscores the effectiveness of input tracks in the spatial transformer as good task prompts, guiding the CLS token to attend
to appropriate areas.
TABLE V: Average success rate on LIBERO benchmark. Our method performs consistently better than all the baselines across
all suites. UniPi-Replan is only evaluated for a single seed due to the computation cost.
Method
Libero-Spatial
Libero-Object
Libero-Goal
Libero-Long
Libero-90
BC-Full-Trainset (Oracle)
71.83 ± 3.70
71.00 ± 7.97
76.33 ± 1.31
24.17 ± 2.59
-
BC
39.00 ± 8.20
51.83 ± 13.54
42.50 ± 4.95
16.67 ± 3.66
29.78 ± 1.14
R3M-finetune [33]
49.17 ± 3.79
52.83 ± 2.25
5.33 ± 1.43
9.17 ± 2.66
9.59 ± 0.27
VPT [3]
37.83 ± 4.29
19.50 ± 0.82
3.33 ± 2.36
3.83 ± 1.65
-
UniPi [12, 23]
69.17 ± 3.75
59.83 ± 3.01
11.83 ± 2.02
5.83 ± 2.08
-
UniPi-Replan [5]
-
31.00
3.00
-
-
ATM (Ours)
68.50 ± 1.78
68.00 ± 6.18
77.83 ± 0.82
39.33 ± 15.80
48.41 ± 2.09
TABLE VI: Detailed results of Diffusion policy on LIBERO. The Diffusion policy can be further improved by our method,
suggesting that our Any-point Trajectory Modeling framework is an important building block to apply to any policy model.
Method
Libero-Spatial
Libero-Object
Libero-Goal
Libero-Long
Libero-90
Diffusion Policy
67.67 ± 1.25
78.00 ± 2.45
35.00 ± 3.74
37.33 ± 2.05
33.85 ± 1.71
ATM Diffusion Policy
79.00 ± 3.74
81.00 ± 2.45
58.67 ± 4.64
44.00 ± 6.38
62.89 ± 1.10
(action-labeled) and 100 human manipulation videos (action-
free). We compare three methods: 1) behavioral cloning only
with 10 action-labeled robot demos, 2) ATM, training track
transformer with only 10 robot demos, and 3) ATM, training
a track transformer with both action-free human and action-
labeled robot data. For each task, we train each method with
three different random seeds, evaluate them in the real world
10 times, and report the average success rate in Table I.
Human-to-Robot visualization. The detailed video visualiza-
tions of human-to-robot skill transfer are shown in Figure 15.
Due to limited training samples, the track transformer trained
with only 10 robot videos fails to predict the future point
trajectories, leading to low success rates. In contrast, the
trajectory model trained with human videos generates high-
quality tracks in each frame, guiding the agent to successfully
complete the task with only 10 action-labeled trajectories. This
indicates our any-point trajectory modeling enables to transfer
the motion prior from cross-embodiment videos to robot skills,
which significantly improves policy learning.
Furthermore, we visualize the attention maps of Track
Transformers trained with or without human videos in Fig-
ure 14. Track Transformer trained with human videos (bottom
row) displays well-defined attention heatmaps that primarily
focus on the object and robot arm. Conversely, the atten-
tion maps from the model trained without human videos
(middle row) are notably more dispersed, often incorrectly
focusing on background areas. This comparison highlights
the effectiveness of our ATM in leveraging prior knowledge
from human videos, facilitating successful cross-embodiment
imitation learning.
APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION DETAILS
A. Policy Architecture
We include a more detailed visual of the ViT-T [27, 21]
policy used in our experiments in Figure 12. The input to our
policy is a set of temporally stacked images across multiple
views ot ∈RV ×T ×C×H×W , and proprioception pt ∈RDp.
To process these inputs, ViT-T consists of three stages:


--- Page 16 ---
TABLE VII: Hyperparameters of track transformer training.
Hyperparameters
Track Transformer
epoch
100
batch size
1024
optimizer
AdamW
learning rate
1e-4
weight decay
1e-4
lr scheduler
Cosine
lr warm up
5
clip grad
10
point sampling
variance filtering
number of points
32
track length
16
track patch size
4
image mask ratio
0.5
augmentation
ColorJitter,RandomShift
TABLE VIII: Hyperparameters of policy training.
Hyperparameters
Policy
epoch
100
batch size
512
optimizer
AdamW
learning rate
5e-4
weight decay
1e-4
lr scheduler
Cosine
lr warm up
0
clip grad
100
point sampling
grid
number of points
32
track length
16
frame stack
10
augmentation
ColorJitter,RandomShift
base
view
wrist
view
predicted
tracks
Spatial Transformer
Temporal Transformer
time
time
time
spatial 
state
joint, gripper 
state
action
cls
MLP Head
𝑎!
late 
fusion
early fusion
Fig. 12: To summarize spatial information, we perform self-
attention on a sequence consisting of all views’ track and
image patches and a CLS token. To integrate information
across time, we perform casual self-attention between spatial
CLS token, proprioception, and an action CLS token per
timestep. To regress actions, we concatenate each timestep’s
action CLS token and proposed tracks.
Spatial Encoding: We encode all modalities at each timestep.
We first leverage the frozen track transformer to propose
a set of tracks for all V
frames in ot. We then project
each modality with modality-specific encoders into a shared
embedding space RD. Each modality’s tokens are embedded
using a shared learned modality token, and modality-specific
positional embeddings. We then concatenate tokens across all
modalities and views with a learned spatial CLS token, and
perform self-attention on the sequence. We extract the spatial
CLS token as the representation.
Temporal Decoding: We process the encoded modalities
across
timesteps
into
actions.
We
first
project
the
proprioception
at
each
timestep
into
the
same
shared
embedding space RD. We then interleave the encoded
proprioception, the spatial CLS token, and a learned action
1. random tracking
2. filter & retrack
video
“pick up the milk and place it in the basket”
Fig. 13: Given a video (left), we query 1000 randomly sampled
points using an off-the-shelf TAP model (middle), where
each colored dot represents the starting position of a track.
We then filter the tracks using a heuristic of their position
displacement across the video and re-sample around these
points (right). We can see that extracted tracks are concentrated
around informative objects, such as the robot’s gripper and
manipulation targets.
CLS token across timesteps into a sequence, before performing
causally-masked self attention between the sequence.
Action Head: We treat each timestep’s output independently
and parameterize actions using an MLP. For each timestep,
we take the action CLS token, and fuse the CLS token with
the reconstructed tracks of the current timestep.
B. Efficient Training with Point Filtering
We adopt a heuristic to filter out the static points in the
background and then utilize an off-the-shelf tracking model to
generate the corresponding tracks of the large-motion points.
The visualization of the sampled points before and after the
filtering process is shown in Figure 13.
C. Training Details
We list the training hyperparameters for the track trans-
former and track-guided policy in Table VII and VIII, which
are fixed for all experiments on LIBERO benchmark. We train
all models on 4 A100 GPUs with DeepSpeed strategy.
We train the track transformer using the ground truth tracks
generated by CoTracker [20] and save the checkpoint with


--- Page 17 ---
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
fold the cloth and pull it to the right
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
use the broom to sweep the toys into the dustpan and put it in front of the dustpan
Fig. 14: Attention maps of Track Transformer trained with and without human videos. Including large-scale human video leads
to much clearer attention maps, focusing on the object and robot arm, while training without human videos will attend to
incorrect areas such as background walls.
the lowest validation loss as our final model to apply for
policy learning. We do not incorporate frame stacking for track
transformer to avoid causal confusion [52].
We train policies using the expert demonstrations provided
by LIBERO, which is collected by human experts through
teleoperation with 3Dconnexion Spacemouse [27]. Since the
validation loss in behavioral cloning is not always reliable,
we save the checkpoint of the last epoch for online rollout
evaluation.


--- Page 18 ---
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
fold the cloth and pull it to the right
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
put the tomato into the pan and close the cabinet door
human videos
ATM trained w/o 
human videos
ATM trained w/ 
human videos
use the broom to sweep the toys into the dustpan and put it in front of the dustpan
Fig. 15: The visualizations of human demos and rollout videos of ATM policies trained with and without human data. We can
see that ATM is able to take advantage of out-of-domain videos, i.e., human videos, to generate more precise tracks, resulting
in better policy performance.

