
--- Page 1 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical
World
Gemini Robotics Team, Google DeepMind1
Recent advancements in large multimodal models have led to the emergence of remarkable generalist
capabilities in digital domains, yet their translation to physical agents such as robots remains a significant
challenge. Generally useful robots need to be able to make sense of the physical world around them, and
interact with it competently and safely. This report introduces a new family of AI models purposefully
designed for robotics and built upon the foundation of Gemini 2.0. We present Gemini Robotics, an
advanced Vision-Language-Action (VLA) generalist model capable of directly controlling robots. Gemini
Robotics executes smooth and reactive movements to tackle a wide range of complex manipulation tasks
while also being robust to variations in object types and positions, handling unseen environments as well
as following diverse, open vocabulary instructions. We show that with additional fine-tuning, Gemini
Robotics can be specialized to new capabilities including solving long-horizon, highly dexterous tasks
like folding an origami fox or playing a game of cards, learning new short-horizon tasks from as few
as 100 demonstrations, adapting to completely novel robot embodiments including a bi-arm platform
and a high degrees-of-freedom humanoid. This is made possible because Gemini Robotics builds on
top of the Gemini Robotics-ER model, the second model we introduce in this work. Gemini Robotics-ER
(Embodied Reasoning) extends Gemini’s multimodal reasoning capabilities into the physical world, with
enhanced spatial and temporal understanding. This enables capabilities relevant to robotics including
object detection, pointing, trajectory and grasp prediction, as well as 3D understanding in the form of
multi-view correspondence and 3D bounding box predictions. We show how this novel combination
can support a variety of robotics applications, e.g., zero-shot (via robot code generation), or few-shot
(via in-context learning). We also discuss and address important safety considerations related to this
new class of robotics foundation models. The Gemini Robotics family marks a substantial step towards
developing general-purpose robots that realize AI’s potential in the physical world.
1. Introduction
The remarkable progress of modern artificial intelligence (AI) models – with pre-training on large-
scale datasets – has redefined information processing, demonstrating proficiency and generalization
across diverse modalities such as text, images, audio, and video. This has opened a vast landscape of
opportunities for interactive and assistive systems within the digital realm, ranging from multimodal
chatbots to virtual assistants. However, realizing the potential of general-purpose autonomous AI in
the physical world requires a substantial shift from the digital world, where physically grounded AI
agents must demonstrate robust human-level embodied reasoning: The set of world knowledge that
encompasses the fundamental concepts which are critical for operating and acting in an inherently
physically embodied world. While, as humans, we take for granted our embodied reasoning abilities –
such as perceiving the 3D structure of environments, interpreting complex inter-object relationships,
or understanding intuitive physics – these capabilities form an important basis for any embodied AI
agent. Furthermore, an embodied AI agent must also go beyond passively understanding the spatial
and physical concepts of the real world; it must also learn to take actions that have direct effects
1See Contributions and Acknowledgments section for full author list.
Please send correspondence to
gemini-robotics-report@google.com.
© 2025 Google DeepMind. All rights reserved
arXiv:2503.20020v1  [cs.RO]  25 Mar 2025


--- Page 2 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Gemini Robotics-ER
Gemini Robotics
2.0
Robotics specific training
Dexterous, general & instructable Vision-Language-Action model
Adaptation & specialization
dataset
Embodied reasoning
dataset
Diverse robot actions
dataset
Dexterous tasks
dataset
New embodiments
dataset
Advanced reasoning
Open the bottom drawer of the 
jewelry box.
Take out the bottle from the right 
side pocket of the bag.
Put the brown bar in the top 
pocket of the lunch bag.
Wrap the wire around the 
headphone.
Advanced embodied reasoning for robotics
3D object detection.
2D object detection.
2D pointing.
Grasp point and angle prediction.
New embodiments
Complex dexterous tasks
Advanced reasoning & acting
Figure 1 | Overview of the Gemini Robotics family of embodied AI models. Gemini 2.0 already exhibits
capabilities relevant to robotics such as semantic safety understanding and long contexts. The robotics-specific
training and the optional specialization processes enable the Gemini Robotics models to exhibit a variety of
robotics-specific capabilities. The models generate dexterous and reactive motions, can be quickly adapted to
new embodiments, and use advanced visuo-spatial reasoning to inform actions.
on their external environment, bridging the gap between passive perception and active physical
interaction.
With the recent advancements in robotics hardware, there is exciting potential for creating
embodied AI agents that can perform highly dexterous tasks. With this in mind, we ask: What would
it take to endow a state-of-the-art digital AI model with the embodied reasoning capabilities needed
to interact with our world in a general and dexterous manner?
Our thesis is predicated on harnessing the advanced multimodal understanding and reasoning
capabilities inherent in frontier Vision-Language Models (VLMs), such as Gemini 2.0. The generalized
comprehension afforded by these foundation models, with their ability to interpret visual inputs and
complex text instructions, forms a powerful foundation for building embodied agents. This endeavor
hinges on two fundamental components. First, Gemini needs to acquire robust embodied reasoning,
gaining the ability to understand the rich geometric and temporal-spatial details of the physical world.
Second, we must ground this embodied reasoning in the physical world by enabling Gemini to speak
the language of physical actions, understanding contact physics, dynamics, and the intricacies of
real-world interactions. Ultimately, these pieces must coalesce to enable fast, safe and dexterous
control of robots in the real world.
To this end, we introduce the Gemini Robotics family of embodied AI models, built on top of Gemini
2.0, our most advanced multimodal foundation model. We first validate the performance and generality
of the base Gemini 2.0’s innate embodied reasoning capabilities with a new open-source general
embodied reasoning benchmark, ERQA. We then introduce two models: The first model is Gemini
Robotics-ER, a VLM with strong embodied reasoning capabilities at its core, exhibiting generalization
across a wide range of embodied reasoning tasks while also maintaining its core foundation model
2


--- Page 3 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
2D Object Detection
2D Pointing
2D Pointing
Multi-view Correspondence
3D Object Detection
Figure 2 | Gemini 2.0 excels at embodied reasoning capabilities — detecting objects and points in 2D, leveraging
2D pointing for grasping and trajectories, and corresponding points and detecting objects in 3D. All results
shown are obtained with Gemini 2.0 Flash.
capabilities. Gemini Robotics-ER exhibits strong performance on multiple capabilities critical for
understanding the physical world, ranging from 3D perception to detailed pointing to robot state
estimation and affordance prediction via code. The second model is Gemini Robotics, a state-of-the-
art Vision-Language-Action (VLA) model that connects strong embodied reasoning priors to dexterous
low-level control of real-world robots to solve challenging manipulation tasks. As a generalist VLA,
Gemini Robotics can perform a wide array of diverse and complicated tasks, while also closely following
language guidance and generalizing to distribution shifts in instructions, visuals, and motions. To
emphasize the flexibility and generality of the Gemini Robotics models, we also introduce an optional
specialization stage, which demonstrates how Gemini Robotics can be adapted for extreme dexterity,
for advanced reasoning in difficult generalization settings, and for controlling completely new robot
embodiments. Finally, we discuss the safety implications of training large robotics models such as the
Gemini Robotics models, and provide guidelines for how to study such challenges in the context of
VLAs. Specifically, this report highlights:
1. ERQA: An open-source benchmark specifically designed to evaluate embodied reasoning ca-
pabilities of multimodal models, addressing the lack of benchmarks that go beyond assessing
atomic capabilities and facilitating standardized assessment and future research.
2. Gemini Robotics-ER: A VLM demonstrating enhanced embodied reasoning capabilities.
3. Gemini Robotics: A VLA model resulting from the integration of robot action data, enabling
high-frequency dexterous control, robust generalization and fast adaptation across diverse
robotic tasks and embodiments.
4. Responsible Development: We discuss and exercise responsible development of our family of
models in alignment with Google AI Principles carefully studying the societal benefits and risks
of our models, and potential risk mitigation.
The Gemini Robotics models serve as an initial step towards more generally capable robots. We
believe that, ultimately, harnessing the embodied reasoning capabilities from internet scale data,
3


--- Page 4 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Approximately which colored 
trajectory should the zipper follow 
to begin zipping up the suitcase?
A. Blue
B. Purple
C. Green
D. Red
How should the person move the 
wrench so that it is ready to rotate 
the hex screw closest to it?
A. Forward and right
B. Up and left
C. Forward and left
D. None of the above
There are 4 sinks in the picture. 
Which arrow points to the one that 
is closest to the viewer?
A. Cyan
B. Blue
C. Red
D. None of the arrows
Figure 3 | Example questions from the Embodied Reasoning Question Answering (ERQA) benchmark, with
answers in bold.
grounded with action data from real world interactions, can enable robots to deeply understand the
physical world and act competently. This understanding will empower them to achieve even the most
challenging goals with generality and sophistication that has so far seemed out of reach for robotic
systems.
2. Embodied Reasoning with Gemini 2.0
Gemini 2.0 is a Vision-Language Model (VLM) that is capable of going beyond tasks that only require
visual understanding and language processing. In particular, this model exhibits advanced embodied
reasoning (ER) capabilities. We define ER as the ability of a Vision-Language Model to ground objects
and spatial concepts in the real world, and the ability to synthesize those signals for downstream
robotics applications. See some examples of such capabilities in Fig. 2. In Section 2.1, we first
introduce a benchmark for evaluating a broad spectrum of ER capabilities and show that Gemini 2.0
models are state-of-the-art. In Section 2.2, we demonstrate the wide range of specific ER capabilities
enabled by Gemini 2.0. Finally, in Section 2.3, we showcase how these capabilities can be put to use
in robotics applications without the need for fine-tuning on robot action data, enabling use cases such
as zero-shot control via code generation and few-shot robot control via in-context learning.
2.1. Embodied Reasoning Question Answering (ERQA) Benchmark
Spatial
Reasoning
84
Action
Reasoning
72
Trajectory
Reasoning
66
State
Estimation
55
Task
Reasoning
38
Multi-view
Reasoning
37
Pointing
34
Other
14
Figure 4 | ERQA question categories.
To capture progress in embodied reasoning for VLMs, we intro-
duce ERQA, short for Embodied Reasoning Question Answer-
ing, a benchmark that focuses specifically on capabilities likely
required by an embodied agent interacting with the physical
world. ERQA consists of 400 multiple choice Visual Ques-
tion Answering (VQA)-style questions across a wide variety of
categories, including spatial reasoning, trajectory reasoning,
action reasoning, state estimation, pointing, multi-view rea-
soning, and task reasoning. A breakdown of the distribution
of question types is in Fig. 4. Of the 400 questions 28% have
more than one image in the prompt — these questions that
4


--- Page 5 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Gemini
GPT
Claude
Benchmark
1.5 Flash
1.5 Pro
2.0 Flash
2.0 Pro Experimental
4o-mini
4o
3.5 Sonnet
ERQA
42.3
41.8
46.3
48.3
37.3
47.0
35.5
RealworldQA (test)
69.0
64.5
71.6
74.5
65.0
71.9
61.4
BLINK (val)
59.2
64.4
65.0
65.2
56.9
62.3
60.2
Table 1 | Comparing VLMs on benchmarks that assess a wide range of embodied reasoning capabilities,
including our new ERQA benchmark. Benchmarks are evaluated by accuracies of multiple-choice answers.
Results obtained in Feb 2025.
require corresponding concepts across multiple images tend to be more challenging than single-image
questions.
ERQA is complementary to existing VLM benchmarks, which tend to highlight more atomic
capabilities (e.g., object recognition, counting, localization), but in most cases do not take sufficient
account of the broader set of capabilities needed to act in the physical world. Fig. 3 shows some
example questions and answers of our ERQA. Some questions require the VLM to recognize and
register objects across multiple frames; others require reasoning about objects’ affordances and
3D relationships with the rest of the scene. Full details of the benchmark can be found at https:
//github.com/embodiedreasoning/ERQA.
We manually labeled all questions in ERQA to ensure correctness and quality. Images (not
questions) in the benchmark are either taken by ourselves or sourced from these datasets: OXE (O’Neill
et al., 2024), UMI Data (UMI-Data, 2024), MECCANO (Ragusa et al., 2021, 2022), HoloAssist (Wang
et al., 2023), and EGTEA Gaze+ (Li et al., 2021). In Table 1, we report results of Gemini models
and other models on ERQA, as well as on RealworldQA (XAI-org, 2024) and BLINK (Fu et al., 2024),
two popular benchmarks that also measure spatial and image understanding capabilities. Specifically,
we report results of Gemini 2.0 Flash, a powerful low-latency workhorse model and Gemini 2.0 Pro
Experimental 02-05 (short as Gemini 2.0 Pro Experimental in the rest of the paper), the best Gemini
model for complex tasks. Gemini 2.0 Flash and Pro Experimental achieve a new state-of-the-art on all
three benchmarks in their respective model classes. We also note that ERQA is the most challenging
benchmark across these three, making the performance here especially notable.
Gemini 2.0 models are capable of advanced reasoning — we found we can significantly improve
Gemini 2.0’s performance on the benchmark if we use Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting (Wei et al.,
2022), which encourages the model to output reasoning traces to “think” about a problem before
choosing the multiple choice answer, instead of directly predicting the answer. We use the following
instruction as the CoT prompt appended at the end of each question: “Reason step by step about the
answer, and show your work, for each step. Only after that, proceed to the final answer.” Results are
shown in Table 2. With CoT prompting, Gemini 2.0 Flash’s performance exceeds that of Gemini 2.0
Pro Experimental without CoT, and CoT further improves Gemini 2.0 Pro Experimental’s performance.
We highlight two such reasoning traces in Fig. 5, questions that Gemini 2.0 Pro Experimental answered
incorrectly without CoT, but correctly with CoT. The reasoning traces demonstrate Gemini 2.0 is able
Gemini
GPT
Claude
Prompt Variant
2.0 Flash
2.0 Pro Experimental
4o-mini
4o
3.5 Sonnet
Without CoT
46.3
48.3
37.3
47.0
35.5
With CoT
50.3
54.8
40.5
50.5
45.8
Table 2 | Performances on the ERQA benchmark with and without Chain-of-Thought (CoT) prompting.
5


--- Page 6 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
If the yellow robot gripper follows the yellow 
trajectory, what will happen?
A. Robot puts the soda on the wooden steps. 
B. Robot moves the soda in front of the wooden 
steps. 
C. Robot moves the soda to the very top of the 
wooden steps. 
D. Robot picks up the soda can and moves it up.
Let's analyze the trajectory and the position of the soda 
can and the wooden steps. 
Step 1: Observe the starting point. The yellow trajectory 
starts at the green circle, which is around the soda can. 
This indicates the robot gripper is initially positioned to 
interact with the can. 
Step 2: Analyze the trajectory path. The yellow line 
moves upwards from the can, indicating a lifting motion. 
Then, it curves towards the wooden steps. 
Step 3: Observe the ending point. The trajectory ends at 
the purple circle, which is located on the first step of the 
wooden structure. 
Step 4: Combine the observations. The robot gripper 
starts at the can, moves upwards (picking up the can), and 
then moves towards the wooden steps, ending on the first 
step. 
Step 5: Deduce the outcome. Based on the trajectory, 
the robot will pick up the soda can and place it on the first 
step of the wooden structure. 
Final Answer: (A)
How does the bottom dial need to move in 
order to match the top two dials? 
A. Half turn clockwise. 
B. Quarter turn counterclockwise. 
C. Quarter turn clockwise. 
D. No change needed
Let's analyze the position of the bottom dial 
compared to the top two dials. 
Step 1: Observe the top two dials. Both the top 
and middle dials have their indicator lines 
pointing straight up. 
Step 2: Observe the bottom dial. The bottom 
dial has its indicator line pointing to the left. 
Step 3: Determine the necessary movement. 
To make the bottom dial's indicator line point 
straight up like the other two, it needs to be 
rotated to the right. 
Step 4: Quantify the movement. A full circle is 
360 degrees. A quarter turn is 360/4 = 90 
degrees. The bottom dial needs to move 90 
degrees to the right. 
Step 5: Select the correct option. A 90-degree 
rotation to the right is a quarter turn clockwise. 
Final Answer: (C)
Figure 5 | Examples of questions and reasoning traces with Gemini 2.0 Pro Experimental. Red answers were
obtained without the CoT prompt; green answers obtained with CoT prompt.
to 1) precisely ground its spatial understanding in observations in the image and 2) leverage such
grounding to perform complex, step-by-step embodied reasoning.
2.2. Gemini 2.0’s Embodied Reasoning Capabilities
In this section, we illustrate some of Gemini 2.0’s embodied reasoning capabilities in more detail.
We also introduce Gemini Robotics-ER, a version of Gemini 2.0 Flash that has enhanced embodied
reasoning. These can be used in robotics applications without the need for any additional robot-specific
data or training. Gemini 2.0 can understand a variety of 2D spatial concepts in images.
1. Object Detection: Gemini 2.0 can perform open-world 2D object detection, providing precise
2D bounding boxes with queries that can be explicit (e.g., describing an object name) or implicit
(categories, attributes, or functions).
2. Pointing: Given any natural language description, the model is able to point to explicit entities
like objects and object parts, as well as implicit notions such as affordances (where to grasp,
where to place), free space and spatial concepts. See Table 3 for quantitative evaluations.
3. Trajectory Prediction: Gemini 2.0 can leverage its pointing capabilities to produce 2D motion
trajectories that are grounded in its observations. Trajectories can be based, for instance, on a
description of the physical motion or interaction.
4. Grasp Prediction: This is a new feature introduced in Gemini Robotics-ER. It extends Gemini
2.0’s pointing capabilities to predict top-down grasps.
Gemini 2.0 is also capable of 3D spatial reasoning (Chen et al., 2024; Hwang et al., 2024). With the
ability to “see in 3D”, Gemini 2.0 can better understand concepts like sizes, distances, and orientations,
and it can leverage such understanding to reason about the state of the scene and actions to perform.
1. Multi-View Correspondence: A natural way of representing 3D information with images is
through multi-view (e.g., stereo) images. Gemini 2.0 can understand 3D scenes from multi-view
images and predict 2D point correspondences across multiple camera views of the same scene.
2. 3D Bounding Box Detection: This 3D understanding applies to single images as well - Gemini
2.0 can directly predict metric 3D bounding boxes from monocular images. Like 2D Detection
and Pointing capabilities, Gemini 2.0 can detect objects by open-vocabulary descriptions.
6


--- Page 7 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Detect all the kitchenware
Detect all nuts on the right side of the 
image
Detect the spill and what can be used to clean 
it up
towel
spill
Figure 6 | 2D Detection examples with Gemini 2.0 Flash. Left: detect by object category. Middle: detect by
spatial description. Right: detect by affordance. Predicted object labels are not shown for left and middle
images to reduce visual clutter.
Point to the spoon handle, an empty area on the table 
left of the pan
Point to all 8 cans, and where a 9th can 
would be placed following the grid pattern
Point to where a human would grasp this and pick 
it up
Figure 7 | Gemini 2.0 can predict 2D points from natural language queries. Examples are obtained with Gemini
2.0 Flash. Predicted point labels are not visualized.
While it is possible to create expert models for each of these tasks individually, fusing them in a single
foundation model, such as Gemini 2.0, allows the model to perform embodied reasoning tasks with
open-world natural language instructions, respond to feedback and sustain multi-turn interactions.
In particular, Gemini 2.0 can combine scene understanding with reasoning to solve more complex
tasks, such as writing robot code (see Section 2.3).
Below we present detailed quantitative and qualitative evaluations of these capabilities with
Gemini 2.0 models (Flash, and Pro Experimental), as well as comparisons with other VLMs where
appropriate. For some capabilities, we also present results on Gemini Robotics-ER. You can find code
and prompt examples on how to prompt Gemini 2.0 to elicit these capabilities here.
Object Detection. Gemini 2.0 can predict 2D object bounding boxes from natural language queries.
In Fig. 6, we show multiple 2D detection examples with Gemini 2.0 Flash on images that a robot
might see. Gemini 2.0 represents 2D bounding boxes with the convention 𝑦0, 𝑥0, 𝑦1, 𝑥1. We can
prompt Gemini 2.0 to detect everything in a scene (examples in Fig. 2). The model can also detect
specific objects by their descriptions — for example, “detect all the kitchenware” in Fig. 6. These
descriptions can contain spatial cues as well — “detecting nuts on the right side of the image” in the
middle example. Finally, we can prompt Gemini 2.0 to detect objects by their affordances. In the right
example of Fig. 6, we ask Gemini 2.0 to detect the spill and “what can be used to clean it up”. Gemini
2.0 is able to detect both the spill and the towel, without being specified explicitly. These examples
showcase the benefit of combining precise localization capabilities with general-purpose VLMs, where
7


--- Page 8 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Gemini
GPT
Claude
Molmo
Benchmark
Gemini Robotics-ER
2.0 Flash
2.0 Pro
4o-mini
4o
3.5 Sonnet
7B-D
72B
Experimental
Paco-LVIS
71.3
46.1
45.5
11.8
16.2
12.4
45.4
47.1
Pixmo-Point
49.5
25.8
20.9
5.9
5.0
7.2
14.7
12.5
Where2Place
45.0
33.8
38.8
13.8
20.6
16.2
45
63.8
Table 3 | 2D Pointing Benchmarks evaluating open-vocabulary pointing capabilities. Scores are accuracies (1 if
predicted point is within the ground truth region mask, 0 otherwise).
Point to the blue brush and a list of points 
covering the region of particles
Point to the right hand and the handles of the 
scissor … and a trajectory of 5 points from the 
right hand to the handles of the scissor
Point to the left hand and the handle of the 
blue screwdriver, and a trajectory of 6 points 
connecting them.
Figure 8 | Gemini 2.0 can predict 2D trajectories by first predicting start and end points. Examples are obtained
with Gemini 2.0 Flash. Predicted point labels are not visualized.
Gemini’s open-vocabulary and open-world reasoning enables a level of semantic generalization that is
difficult to achieve with special-purpose expert models.
2D Pointing. For some use cases, points can offer a more flexible and precise representation for
image understanding and robot control than bounding boxes. We illustrate Gemini 2.0’s pointing
capabilities in various robot manipulation scenes (Fig. 7). The model represents points as 𝑦, 𝑥tuples.
Similar to 2D object detection, Gemini 2.0 can point to any object described by open-vocabulary
language. Gemini 2.0 can localize not only entire objects, but also object parts, such as a spoon
handle (Fig. 7, left). Additionally, Gemini 2.0 can point to spatial concepts, e.g., an “empty area on
the table left of the pan” (Fig. 7, left) or “where a new can should be placed following the pattern
of the existing eight cans” (Fig. 7, middle). It can also infer affordances; for example, when asked
to “point to where a human would grasp this to pick it up”, the model correctly identifies the mug
handle (Fig. 7, right).
We quantitatively evaluate Gemini 2.0’s pointing performance in Table 3 using three benchmarks:
Paco-LVIS (Ramanathan et al., 2023) for object part pointing on natural images, Pixmo-Point (Deitke
et al., 2024) for open-vocabulary pointing on web images, and Where2place (Yuan et al., 2024) for
free-space pointing in indoor scenes. See Appendix B.2 for details on how we benchmark pointing
against other models. Gemini 2.0 significantly outperforms state-of-the-art vision-language models
(VLMs) like GPT and Claude. Gemini Robotics-ER surpasses Molmo, a specialized pointing VLM, in
two of the three subtasks.
2D Trajectories. Gemini 2.0 can leverage its pointing capabilities to predict 2D trajectories that
connect multiple points together. While Gemini 2.0 cannot perform complex motion planning (e.g.,
to avoid obstacles), it can still generate useful trajectories that are grounded in the observed images.
We showcase some examples in Fig. 8. In the left and middle images, Gemini 2.0 interpolates a
8


--- Page 9 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Find the grasp points and grasp angles on the 
stapler handle, tape roll, finger holes of the 
scissors, dark blue pen, rim of the black square 
tray.
Find the grasp points and grasp angles on the 
wooden spoon handle, pan handle, neck of the 
wine bottle, and right handle of the cupboard.
Find the grasp points and grasp angles on the 
stem and the middle of the banana.
Figure 9 | Gemini Robotics-ER can predict top-down grasps by leveraging Gemini 2.0’s 2D pointing capability.
Examples are obtained with Gemini Robotics-ER.
reasonable trajectory from a human hand in the ego-centric video to a tool that it may grasp. In the
right image, Gemini 2.0 predicts a series of waypoints that, if followed by the robot gripper, would
wipe the spilled area of a tray. Gemini 2.0’s trajectory prediction capabilities exhibit world knowledge
about motion and dynamics which is a fundamental capability for robotics. We capitalize on these
nascent trajectory understanding capabilities to tie actions to vision and language capabilities in a
much stronger fashion in Section 4.2.
Top-Down Grasps. Gemini 2.0’s semantic pointing capabilities can be naturally extended to top-down
grasping poses, represented as 𝑦, 𝑥, and a rotation angle 𝜃. This capability is further improved in
Gemini Robotics-ER, as shown in Fig. 9. For example, we can prompt for a grasp either on the stem of
the banana or the center of the banana (right image). We show how such grasp predictions can be
directly used for downstream robot control on real robots in Section 2.3.
Multi-view Correspondence. Gemini can also understand the 3D structure of the world. One
example is its ability to understand a 3D scene from multiple views. For instance, with an initial
image annotated with a list of points and a new image of the same scene from a different view, we
can ask Gemini 2.0 which of the points from the initial image are still visible in the second image
and we can query the coordinates of those points. From the examples in Fig. 10, we observe that
Gemini 2.0 can perform multi-view correspondence across dramatically different views. In the top
image pair, the model correctly predicts that the red point refers to an object held by the human
in these egocentric images, even though the view of the rest of the scene has changed significantly.
In the bottom image pair, the model correctly predicts that the orange point is not visible in the
second image. Such multi-view understanding is useful for robotics domains where a robot can use
Gemini 2.0 to reason about multiple image streams (e.g., stereo views, head and wrist views) to better
understand the 3D spatial relationships of its observations.
3D Detection. Gemini 2.0 can also predict metric 3D bounding boxes from single images. Similar to
its 2D detection capabilities, Gemini 2.0’s 3D detection capability is also open-vocabulary, as illustrated
in Fig. 11. In Table 4, we report Gemini 2.0’s 3D detection performance using SUN-RGBD (Song
et al., 2015), a popular dataset and benchmark for 3D object detection and scene understanding, and
compare it with baseline expert models (ImVoxelNet (Rukhovich et al., 2022), Implicit3D (Zhang
et al., 2021), and Total3DUnderstanding (Nie et al., 2020)). Gemini 2.0’s 3D detection performance is
comparable to existing state-of-the-art expert models, with Gemini Robotics-ER achieving a new state-
of-the-art on the SUN-RGBD benchmark. While these baselines work with a closed set of categories,
Gemini allows for open-vocabulary queries.
9


--- Page 10 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Gemini
Specialized Expert Models
Benchmark
Gemini Robotics-ER
2.0 Flash
2.0 Pro Experimental
ImVoxelNet
Implicit3D
Total3DU
SUN-RGBD AP@15
48.3
30.7
32.5
43.7*
24.1
14.3
Table 4 | Gemini Robotics-ER achieves a new state-of-the-art performance on the SUN-RGBD 3D object detection
benchmark. (* ImVoxelNet (Rukhovich et al., 2022) performance measured on an easier set of 10 categories).
Figure 10 | Gemini 2.0 can understand 3D scenes by correlating 2D points across different views. For each
image pair, the left image with the point coordinates and the right image without coordinates are given, and
the model predicts which of the labeled points in the left image are visible in the right image, as well as the
coordinates of the visible points in the right image. Examples are obtained with Gemini 2.0 Flash.
Detect the 3D bounding boxes of blender, 
toaster, curtains, sink, range hood, stove.
Find the 3D bounding boxes of sugar bowl, 
sugar jar, wooden salt shaker, knifes, spill, 
towel.
Detect the 3D bounding boxes of stove top, 
toy sink, ice cream, pepper, carrot.
Figure 11 | Gemini 2.0 can directly predict open-vocabulary 3D object bounding boxes. Examples are obtained
with Gemini 2.0 Flash.
10


--- Page 11 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
2.3. Gemini 2.0 Enables Zero and Few-Shot Robot Control
Gemini 2.0’s embodied reasoning capabilities make it possible to control a robot without it ever having
been trained with any robot action data. It can perform all the necessary steps, perception, state
estimation, spatial reasoning, planning and control, out of the box. Whereas previous work needed
to compose multiple models to this end (Ahn et al., 2022; Kwon et al., 2024; Liang et al., 2023;
Vemprala et al., 2023), Gemini 2.0 unites all required capabilities in a single model.
Below we study two distinct approaches: zero-shot robot control via code generation, and few-
shot control via in-context learning (also denoted as “ICL” below) - where we condition the model
on a handful of in-context demonstrations for a new behavior. Gemini Robotics-ER achieves good
performance across a range of different tasks in both settings, and we find that especially zero-
shot robot control performance is strongly correlated with better embodied understanding: Gemini
Robotics-ER, which has received more comprehensive training to this end, improves task completion
by almost 2x compared to Gemini 2.0.
Zero-shot Control via Code Generation. To test Gemini 2.0’s zero-shot control capabilities, we
combine its innate ability to generate code with the embodied reasoning capabilities described in
Section 2.2. We conduct experiments on a bimanual ALOHA 2 (Team et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2025)
robot. To control the robot, Gemini 2.0 has access to an API (Arenas et al., 2023; Kwon et al., 2024;
Liang et al., 2023) that can move each gripper to a specified pose, open and close each gripper, and
provide a readout of the current robot state. The API also provides functions for perception; no
external models are called, instead Gemini 2.0 itself detects object bounding boxes, points on objects,
and generates the top down grasp pose as described in Section 2.2.
During an episode, Gemini 2.0 is initially passed a system prompt, a description of the robot
API, and the task instructions. Then Gemini 2.0 iteratively takes in images that show the current
state of the scene, the robot state, and execution feedback, and outputs code that is executed in the
environment to control the robot. The generated code uses the API to understand the scene and
move the robot and the execution loop allows Gemini 2.0 to react and replan when necessary (e.g.,
Fig. 34). An overview of the API and episodic control flow is given in Fig. 12.
Initial context
Environment
System prompt
Plan & code output
chat_spark
Code execution
code_blocks
Task agnostic system instruction to explain 
and ground the model’s responses.
Robot API:
precision_manufacturing
API documentation for tool use of 
detection, grasping and robot control for 
task completion.
Abbreviated example:
class RobotApi:
  def get_grasp_pose(object_name, 
gripper):
      ...
  def detect_object(object_name, 
gripper):
      ...
  def open_gripper():
      ...
  def close_gripper():
      ...
  def move_gripper(gripper, 
position, orientation):
      ...
terminal
stdout
Robot images & state
image
Task instruction.
Description of the task to be carried out, 
e.g. Pick up the banana.
Tool library
Gemini Robotics-ER 
capabilities exposed as 
tools:
Grasp point and angle 
prediction.
2D bounding box detection
2D pointing.
Figure 12 | Overview of the perception and control APIs, and agentic orchestration during an episode. This
system is used for zero-shot control.
Table 5 presents results across a set of manipulation tasks in simulation. These tasks were chosen
11


--- Page 12 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
to capture performance across a spectrum of difficulty and objects: from simple grasping (lift a
banana) to long horizon multi-step, multi-task manipulation (put a toy in a box and close the box).
See Appendix B.3.1 for full descriptions. Gemini 2.0 Flash succeeds on average 27% of the time,
although it can be as high as 54% for easier tasks. Gemini Robotics-ER, performs almost twice as well
as 2.0 Flash, successfully completing 53% of the tasks on average. The enhanced embodied reasoning
capabilities of the Gemini Robotics-ER model have clearly benefited the downstream robotic tasks.
System
Sim Task Success Rate (%)
Model
Context
Avg.
Banana
Lift
Banana
in Bowl
Mug
on Plate
Bowl
on Rack
Banana
Handover
Fruit
Bowl
Pack
Toy
2.0 Flash
Zero-shot
27
34
54
46
24
26
4
0
Gemini Robotics-ER
Zero-shot
53
86
84
72
60
54
16
0
2.0 Flash
ICL
51
94
90
36
16
94
0
26
Gemini Robotics-ER
ICL
65
96
96
74
36
96
4
54
Table 5 | Success rates on the ALOHA 2 Sim Task suite. Reported numbers are the average success rate over 50
trials with random initial conditions.
Table 6 shows results on a real ALOHA 2 robot. The success rate for banana handover is lower
compared to simulation due to calibration imperfections and other sources of noise in the real world.
For a harder and more dexterous task: Gemini Robotics-ER is currently unable to perform dress
folding, mostly due to its inability to generate precise enough grasps.
Real Task Success Rate (%)
Context
Avg.
Banana
Handover
Fold
Dress
Wiping
Zero-shot
25
30
0
44
ICL
65
70
56
67
Table 6 | Real world success rates of Gemini Robotics-ER on ALOHA 2 tasks. Reported rates are the average
over 10 trials for banana handover and 9 for fold dress and wiping. For tasks that require dexterous motions,
the zero-shot success rate is not high, but they will be significantly improved in the Gemini Robotics model
(Sec. 3).
Few-shot control via in-context examples. The previous results demonstrated how Gemini Robotics-
ER can be effectively used to tackle a series of tasks entirely zero-shot. However, some dexterous
manipulation tasks are beyond Gemini 2.0’s current ability to perform zero-shot. Motivated by such
cases, we demonstrate that the model can be conditioned on a handful of in-context demonstrations,
and can then immediately emulate those behaviors. Instead of generating code, as in the previous
examples, we instead prompt the model to generate trajectories of end-effectors poses directly,
following the examples in the demonstrations.
We extend the method proposed in (Di Palo and Johns, 2024), which translates 𝑘teleoperated
trajectories of robot actions into a list of objects and end-effectors poses, tokenizing them as text
and adding them to the prompt (Fig. 13). Thanks to the embodied reasoning abilities of Gemini
Robotics-ER, we do not need any external models to extract visual keypoints and object poses (as
was done in the referenced work); Gemini Robotics-ER can do this itself. In addition to observations
and actions, we interleave descriptions of the performed actions in language that elicits reasoning at
inference time in the model. The model emulates the natural language reasoning from the in-context
trajectories and becomes better at, for example, understanding which arm to use when, or more
accurately predicting where to interact with objects. One advantage of using a large multimodal model
12


--- Page 13 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Prompt
Few shot examples
Observations
Inference time:
Environment
Model output
Poses to actions
code_blocks
precision_manufacturing
Few Shot Examples
Task reasoning
Trajectory of poses
The robot needs to put object B on 
object A. Object B is on the left 
therefore it does that with the left 
arm...
left arm xyz: [...] quat: [...] grip: ...
right arm xyz: [...] quat: [...] grip: ...
...
Observations
Demonstration 1:
Keypoints and object poses 
extracted from image by Gemini 
Robotics-ER.
Given the position of the object B, 
grasp it with the left arm. Hand it 
over to the right arm, then place it 
on object A.
Demonstration k
left arm xyz: [...] quat: [...] grip: ...
right arm xyz: [...] quat: [...] grip: ...
(87, 62, 9)
(95, 70, 4)
(80, 95, 4)
(101, 39, 4)
Inference time observation
Gemini Robotics-ER
Keypoints & poses
chat_spark
Gemini Robotics-ER
Keypoints & poses
chat_spark
Figure 13 | Overview of few-shot in-context learning pipeline. Gemini can receive observations, language
instructions and trajectories in the prompt, and generate new language reasoning and trajectories for unseen
instances of the tasks.
is the ability to condition its behavior on observations, actions and language, with the combination of
all outperforming any modality in isolation.
The results using this approach (with 10 demonstrations) are shown in Table 5 and Table 6.
Both Gemini 2.0 Flash and Gemini Robotics-ER are able to effectively use demonstrations entirely
in-context to improve performance. Gemini 2.0 Flash’s performance reaches 51% in simulation, and
Gemini Robotics-ER achieves 65% in both simulation and the real world. Most of the performance
improvements with respect to the zero-shot code generation approach comes from more dexterous
tasks, like handover of objects, folding a dress, or packing a toy, where demonstrations can condition
the model to output more precise, bimanual trajectories.
This set of experiments suggests that Gemini 2.0 Flash and its ER enhanced variant, Gemini
Robotics-ER, can be used directly to control robots, as a perception module (e.g., object detection), a
planning module (e.g., trajectory generation), and/or to orchestrate robot movements by generating
and executing code. It also shows strong correlation between the model performance of embodied
reasoning capabilities and the downstream robotic control. At the same time, our experiments
demonstrate that the model is also able to tap into the power of in-context learning to learn from
just a few demonstrations and boost performance on more dexterous and bimanual tasks, such as
folding clothes, by directly outputting trajectories of end-effectors poses. However, as a VLM, there
are inherent limitations for robot control, especially for more dexterous tasks, due to the intermediate
steps needed to connect the model’s innate embodied reasoning capabilities to robotic actions. In the
next section, we will introduce Gemini Robotics, an end-to-end Vision-Language-Action Model that
enables more general-purpose and dexterous robot control.
3. Robot Actions with Gemini Robotics
In this section, we present Gemini Robotics, a derivative of Gemini that has been fine-tuned to predict
robot actions directly. Gemini Robotics is a general-purpose model capable of solving dexterous tasks
in different environments and supporting different robot embodiments. We first study the model
after training on a large and diverse dataset consisting of action-labeled robot data as well as other
multimodal data. The resulting model can solve a large variety of short-horizon dexterous tasks out of
the box (Section 3.2), closely follows natural language instructions (Section 3.3) and inherits Gemini
Robotics-ER generalization capabilities, showing robustness to visual variations of the scene, object
13


--- Page 14 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Gemini Robotics
Environment
precision_manufacturing
Multimodal prompt
Given
and proprioception {proprio}.
Q: What action should the 
robot take to {task e.g. close 
the laptop}?
Cloud  
backbone
dns
Local action 
decoder
computer
Robot images & state
image
Figure 14 | Overview of the architecture, input and output of the Gemini Robotics model. Gemini Robotics is a
derivative of Gemini fine-tuned to predict robot actions. The model ingests a multimodal prompt consisting of
a set of images of the current status of the scene and a text instruction of the task to perform and it outputs
action chunks that are executed by the robot. The model is made up of two components: a VLA backbone
hosted in the cloud (Gemini Robotics backbone) and a local action decoder running on the robot’s onboard
computer (Gemini Robotics decoder).
positions and instances (Section 3.4). In Section 4, we further test the limits of Gemini Robotics, and
specialize it to challenging highly dexterous long-horizon tasks (Section 4.1), and to more extreme
generalization scenarios (Section 4.2). We also investigate rapid adaptation to novel dexterous tasks
(Section 4.3) as well as adaptation to embodiments with completely new form factors, actions and
observations (Section 4.4).
3.1. Gemini Robotics: Model and Data
Model. Inference in large VLMs like Gemini Robotics-ER is often slow and requires special hardware.
This can cause problems in the context of VLA models, since inference may not be feasible to be run
onboard, and the resulting latency may be incompatible with real-time robot control. Gemini Robotics
is designed to address these challenges. It consists of two components: a VLA backbone hosted in
the cloud (Gemini Robotics backbone) and a local action decoder running on the robot’s onboard
computer (Gemini Robotics decoder). The Gemini Robotics backbone is formed by a distilled version
of Gemini Robotics-ER and its query-to-response latency has been optimized from seconds to under
160ms. The on-robot Gemini Robotics decoder compensates for the latency of the backbone. When the
backbone and local decoder are combined, the end-to-end latency from raw observations to low-level
action chunks is approximately 250ms. With multiple actions in the chunk (Zhao et al., 2023),
the effective control frequency is 50Hz. The overall system not only produces smooth motions and
reactive behaviors despite the latency of the backbone, but also retains the backbone’s generalization
capabilities. An overview of our model architecture is available in Fig. 14.
Data. We collected a large-scale teleoperated robot action dataset on a fleet of ALOHA 2 robots (Team
et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2025) over 12 months, which consists of thousands of hours of real-world
expert robot demonstrations. This dataset contains thousands of diverse tasks, covering scenarios with
varied manipulation skills, objects, task difficulties, episode horizons, and dexterity requirements.
The training data further includes non-action data such as web documents, code, multi-modal content
(image, audio, video), and embodied reasoning and visual question answering data. This improves the
14


--- Page 15 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 15 | A robot’s movement in a few example tasks that require dexterous manipulation in cluttered
environments. From top to bottom: “open the eyeglasses case”, “pour pulses”, “unfasten file folder”, “wrap
headphone wire”.
model’s ability to understand, reason about, and generalize across many robotic tasks, and requests.
Baselines. We compare Gemini Robotics to two state-of-the-art models: The first one is 𝜋0 re-
implement, which is our re-implementation of the open-weights state-of-the-art 𝜋0 VLA model (Beyer
et al., 2024; Black et al., 2024). We train 𝜋0 re-implement on our diverse training mixture and find
this model to outperform the public checkpoint released by the authors, and hence, report it as the
most performant VLA baseline in our experiments (see Appendix C.2 for more details). The second is
a multi-task diffusion policy (Chi et al., 2024) (inspired by ALOHA Unleashed (Zhao et al., 2025) but
modified to be task-conditioned), a model that has been shown to be effective in learning dexterous
skills from multi-modal demonstrations. Both baselines were trained to convergence using the same
composition of our diverse data mixture. Gemini Robotics runs primarily in the cloud with a local
action decoder, whereas both baselines run locally on a workstation equipped with an Nvidia RTX
4090 GPU. All empirical evidence presented in this section is based on rigorous real-world robot
experiments, with A/B testing and statistical analysis (more details in Appendix C.1).
3.2. Gemini Robotics can solve diverse dexterous manipulation tasks out of the box
In our first set of experiments, we demonstrate that Gemini Robotics can solve a wide range of
dexterous tasks. We evaluate the performance of this model on short-horizon dexterous tasks, and
compare to state-of-the-art multi-task baselines. We evaluate all models out of the box, i.e., without any
task-specific fine-tuning or additional prompting, on 20 tasks sampled from our dataset in Section 3.1.
We choose diverse scene setups (some of them illustrated in Fig. 15), spanning a laundry room (e.g.,
“fold pants”), kitchen (e.g., “stack measuring cup”), cluttered office desk (e.g., “open pink folder”),
and other day-to-day activities (e.g., “open glasses case”). These selected tasks also require varying
15


--- Page 16 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 16 | Gemini Robotics can solve a wide variety of tasks out of the box. We sample 20 tasks from the
dataset, which require varying levels of dexterity, and evaluate our model and the baselines on them. Gemini
Robotics significantly outperforms the baselines.
levels of dexterity – from simple pick-and-place (e.g., “pick the shoe lace from the center of the table”)
to dexterous manipulation of deformable objects that requires two-hand coordination (e.g., “wrap the
wire around the headphone”). We show examples of our model rollouts of these tasks in Fig. 15 and
full list of tasks in Appendix C.1.1.
Fig. 16 summarizes the performance of our model and the baselines. We find that the Gemini
Robotics model is proficient at half of the tasks out of the box with a success rate exceeding 80%.
Notably, our model excels at deformable object manipulation ( “fold pink cloth”, “wrap the wire
around the headphone”), while the baselines struggle with these tasks. For the more challenging tasks,
(e.g., “open pink folder”, “insert red block”, “wrap the wire around the headphone”), we find that
Gemini Robotics is the only method that can achieve non-zero success, highlighting that a combination
of a high-capacity model architecture along with high-quality diverse data across all modalities (vision,
language, and action) is essential for multi-task policy learning. Finally, we find that some of the most
dexterous tasks are still quite challenging to learn purely from the multi-task setup (e.g., “insert shoe
lace”): we discuss our specialization recipe for Gemini Robotics to solve these and longer-horizon
challenging tasks in Section 4.1.
3.3. Gemini Robotics can closely follow language instructions
The second set of experiments tests the model’s ability to follow natural language instructions. We
pick 25 language instructions to be evaluated in five diverse evaluation scenes, including training
scenes as well as novel scenes with unseen objects and receptacles (details in Appendix C.1.2). The
evaluation focuses on language commands that must be precisely followed (e.g., “Place the blue clip
to the right of the yellow sticky notes”) – in contrast to open-ended abstract instructions like “clean
the table”). We visualize rollouts and report the binary task success rates in Fig. 17.
Our experiments suggest that strong steerability arises from a combination of high-quality diverse
data and a capable vision-language backbone. Gemini Robotics and 𝜋0 re-implement outperform the
16


--- Page 17 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Office Scene (Seen Objects)
Kitchen Scene (Unseen Objects)
Figure 17 | Gemini Robotics can precisely follow novel language instructions in cluttered scenes which were
never seen during training. Left: scene including objects seen during training. Middle: scene including novel
objects. Right: success rate on “Pick” and “Pick and Place” tasks with detailed instructions for the new objects.
diffusion baseline, even in simple in-distribution scenes, suggesting that a strong language encoder is
required. However, especially in challenging scenes with novel objects and fine-grained instructions
(e.g., “Place the toothpaste in the bottom compartment of the caddy”), we find that Gemini Robotics
is more effective than either baseline (Fig. 17). While the PaliGemma-based 𝜋0 re-implement correctly
approaches objects that were seen during training, it struggles with interpreting descriptive language
attributes (e.g., “top black container”, “blue clip”) and fails to solve tasks with unseen objects and
language descriptors.
3.4. Gemini Robotics brings Gemini’s generalization to the physical world
Lack of robust generalization is a key bottleneck for large-scale deployment of robots in domestic and
industrial applications. In the final set of experiments, we evaluate Gemini Robotics’s ability to deal
with variations along three axes that have been considered important in prior work (Gao et al., 2025).
Visual Generalization: The model should be invariant to visual changes of the scene that do not affect
the actions required to solve the task. These visual changes can include variations in background,
lighting conditions, distractor objects or textures.
Instruction Generalization: The model should understand invariance and equivalence in natural
language instructions. Going beyond fine-grained steerability studied in Section 3.3, the model should
understand paraphrasing, be robust to typos, understand different languages, and varying levels of
specificities.
Action Generalization: The model should be capable of adapting learned movements or synthesizing
new ones, for instance to generalize to initial conditions (e.g., object placement) or object instances
(e.g., shape or physical properties) not seen during training.
We evaluate the generalization performance of Gemini Robotics and the baselines using a diverse
task suite. This benchmark consists of 85 tasks in total, of which 20% are within the training
distribution, 28% evaluate visual generalization, 28% evaluate instruction generalization, and 24%
evaluate action generalization. Fig. 18 - Fig. 20 show examples of the three different types of variations
in our task suite. For a detailed breakdown of tasks, please see Appendix C.1.3. Fig. 21 reports
average progress scores. This metric provides a more continuous measure than the binary task success,
and gives us the finer granularity to visualize the policies’ progress of each task, especially the hard
ones (progress score for each task is defined in Appendix C.1.3.3). We also provide the same plot in
success rate in Fig. 40 in the Appendix.
Gemini Robotics consistently outperforms the baselines and handles all three types of variations
17


--- Page 18 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
In-distribution
Distractors
Different 
background
Different lighting 
conditions
Put the top left green grapes into the right compartment of the grey box.
Figure 18 | Example tasks for measuring different types of visual generalization in the generalization benchmark
for a given instruction. Left: in-distribution scene. From left to right: The scene can have new distractors, a
different background or different lighting conditions.
Initial scene
In-distribution
Typo
Multilingual
Rephrasing
Descriptive
Put the top left 
green grapes into 
the right 
compartment of 
the grey box.
Put the top lft 
gren grapes into 
the rht 
comprtment of 
the grey bx.
Coloque las uvas 
verdes de la 
parte superior 
izquierda en el 
compartimento 
derecho de la 
caja gris.
Pick up the green 
grapes and place 
them in the 
largest container 
of the grey box.
Pick the green 
grapes (top left) 
and put them in 
the grey box 
(right 
compartment).
Figure 19 | Example tasks for measuring different types of instruction generalization in the generalization
benchmark. Left: in distribution instruction. From left to right: The task instruction can have typos, be
expressed in a new language, or be described with different sentences and level of details.
In-distribution
Different initial positions
In-distribution
New object instance
Put the legos into the lego bag.
Tighten the cap of the water bottle.
Open the bottom drawer of the jewelry box.
Fold the dress.
Figure 20 | Example tasks for measuring different types of action generalization in the generalization benchmark.
Left: We show the different initial positions compared to those in-distribution. Right: We show the difference
between new object instances and those we collected data for. In particular, for "fold the dress" we use different
dress sizes (S in-distribution, M and XS as new instances). For both types of variations (initial conditions, object
instances) the model needs adapt previously learned movements, e.g., to reach into different parts of the space
or to manipulate a different object.
18


--- Page 19 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Rephrasing
Typo
New language
Descriptive
0.88
0.65
0.79
0.54
0.68
0.61
0.33
0.32
0.50
0.44
0.04
0.25
0.55
0.34
0.61
0.36
0.12
0.25
Instruction Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Distractors
New background
Lighting
0.88
0.75
0.77
0.75
0.71
0.33
0.36
0.50
0.32
0.14
0.55
0.34
0.29
0.29
0.46
Visual Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
New object instance
Different position
 
0.69
0.60
0.39
0.88
0.31
0.11
0.04
0.22
0.32
0.26
0.21
0.33
Action Generalization
Gemini Robotics
0 re-implement
Multi-task diffusion
Figure 21 | Breakdown of Gemini Robotics generalization capabilities. Gemini Robotics consistently outperforms
the baselines and handles all three types of variations more effectively. Notably, even when baselines experience
catastrophic failure — such as with instructions in a new language or visual variations of the target object
Gemini Robotics still achieves non-zero performance.
more effectively as shown in Fig. 21. Gemini Robotics even achieves non-zero performance in those
cases where the baselines fail catastrophically, e.g., instructions in a new language. We speculate
that these improvements result from the larger and more powerful VLM backbone, including the
state-of-the-art vision encoder used in Gemini 2.0, combined with diverse training data.
4. Specializing and Adapting Gemini Robotics for Dexterity, Reasoning, and New
Embodiments
The Gemini Robotics model is a strong robot generalist that can solve a range of dexterous tasks and
exhibits non-trivial generalization out of the box. In this section, we further test the limits of the
model and explore possible avenues for further improving its generalist capabilities in the future. In
particular, we (1) test the model’s ability to become proficient at much more challenging long-horizon
dexterous tasks with further specialization, and (2) optimize its capacity for generalization through
semantically-grounded embodied reasoning. We also explore (3) the possibility of rapid adaptation to
novel tasks and environments, (4) as well as the adaptation to new robot embodiments. Whereas (1,2)
provide important information for future model improvements, (3) and (4) are desired properties for
practical deployment of the model.
4.1. Long-horizon dexterity
In Section 3.2, we showed that the Gemini Robotics model can accomplish short-horizon dexterous
tasks out of the box. Here, we show that fine-tuning the model with a narrow set of high-quality data
can specialize the model to solve highly dexterous, challenging, long-horizon tasks that are, in terms
of their difficulty, beyond the scope of the generalist model. In particular, we select six tasks (Fig. 22)
to demonstrate the various capabilities of our model after specialization:
19


--- Page 20 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 22 | Gemini Robotics successfully accomplishes a variety of long-horizon dexterous tasks on the ALOHA.
From top to bottom: “make an origami fox”, “pack a lunch-box”, “spelling board game”, “play a game of cards”,
“add snap peas to salad with tongs” and “add nuts to salad”.
Make an origami fox: The robot needs to fold a paper into the shape of a fox’s head. This task needs
4 precise folds, each requiring aligning, bending, pinching, and creasing, with an increasing number of
paper layers. This requires very precise and reliable bi-arm coordination, as even a small error can
lead to an irrecoverable failure.
Pack a lunch-box: The robot needs to pack a lunch bag with several items: It first needs to insert a
slice of bread into the narrow slit of a plastic bag, zip it, and transfer this plastic bag and an energy
bar into the lunch bag. Next, it must transfer the grapes into a container, seal its lid, and move the
container into the lunch bag. Finally, the robot must zip the lunch bag close. Several of the subtasks
(e.g., inserting the bread, closing the container lid, zipping the lunch bag) require precise coordination
between the two arms and fine gripper motion.
Spelling board game: In this game, the human places (or draws) a picture of an object in front
of the robot. The robot must identify the object and physically spell a three-letter word describing
20


--- Page 21 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Scoop nuts
Lunch-box
Playing cards
Spelling game
Place peas
Origami
Tasks
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rate
1.00
1.00
0.90
0.83
0.55
0.45
0.90
0.0
0.15
0.0
0.40
0.0
0.65
0.35
0.65
0.08
0.20
0.05
0.60
0.20
0.85
0.0
0.75
0.0
Gemini Robotics (Specialist)
0 re-implement (Specialist)
Multi-task diffusion (Specialist)
Single task diffusion
Figure 23 | Performance on new, dexterous and long-horizon tasks after specialization. Gemini Robotics is
the only model that can consistently solve the extremely challenging tasks like “Origami” and “Lunch-box”,
achieving a 100% success rate on the latter, while baselines struggle with these tasks. While baselines are
competitive on the easier tasks (such as “Scoop nuts”, “Playing cards” and “Place peas”), Gemini Robotics is the
only successful method at the spelling game, accurately spelling printed picture cards and even achieving over
60% accuracy with hand-drawn sketches (which are never seen in training).
the object by moving alphabet tiles onto a board. This task requires visual recognition, and tight
vision-language-action grounding.
Play a game of cards: The robot must use an automatic card dealer machine to draw three cards
and transfer them to its other hand. The robot must then wait for the human to play, then play a card
from its hand, and finally, fold its hand. This is a challenging fine-grained manipulation task that
requires the robot to handover thin playing cards and precisely pick a card from its hand.
Add snap peas to salad: The robot must use metal tongs to grab snap peas from a bowl and add
them to a different bowl. Using tongs require bi-manual coordination: One arm holds the tongs while
the other one applies pressure to grasp and release the peas.
Add nuts to salad: The robot must use a spoon to scoop nuts from a vertical container to the salad
bowl. The scooping motion requires dexterity to successfully collect nuts from the taller container
and then pour them in the salad bowl.
We curate between 2000 and 5000 episodes of high-quality demonstration data for each task,
and fine-tune the Gemini Robotics checkpoint from Section 3 using each specialization dataset. We
compare the performance of these specialist models with specialized versions of the baselines (𝜋0
re-implement specialist and Multi-task diffusion specialist), both of which are fine-tuned on the same
datasets. Additionally, to evaluate the importance of diverse training data used in Section 3, we train
a single task diffusion policy and another Gemini Robotics specialist from scratch instead of from
the checkpoints from Section 3. We evaluate all models extensively in the real-world and report
task success rate in Fig. 23 (progress score results available in Appendix in Fig. 42). We conduct 20
trials per task for each model for all tasks except for the spelling board game, for which 12 trials are
conducted.
We find that our specialist models can solve all these tasks with an average success rate of 79%.
Most notably, it achieves a 100% success rate of the full long-horizon lunch-box packing task which
takes over 2 minutes to complete. In the spelling game, it correctly reads and spells words from
printed images (seen in the specialization dataset). It is also able to correctly spell 4 out of 6 unseen
hand-drawn sketches. In contrast, none of the baselines can consistently recognize the images and
21


--- Page 22 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
spell the words correctly. For the simpler dexterous tasks, we find that the single task diffusion model
that is trained from scratch is competitive, which is consistent with the best published results (Zhao
et al., 2025). However, the single task diffusion models trained for spelling game, origami, and
lunch-box tasks perform poorly, possibly due to the long-horizon nature of these tasks. We also find
that both Multi-task diffusion and 𝜋0 re-implement, after fine-tuning using the same data, fail to meet
our model’s performance. This is consistent with our findings in Fig. 16. The key difference between
the Gemini Robotics model and the baselines is the much more powerful Gemini-based backbone,
which suggests that successful specialization on challenging tasks highly correlates with the strength
of the generalist model. Furthermore, when we directly train the Gemini Robotics specialist model
from scratch using the specialization datasets, we find that it is unable to solve any of these tasks (0%
success rates across the board, and plot not included in Fig. 23), suggesting that in addition to the
high-capacity model architecture, the representation, or the physical common sense, learned from
diverse robot action datasets in Section 3 is another key component for the model to specialize in
challenging long-horizon tasks that require a high level of dexterity.
4.2. Enhanced reasoning and generalization
We now explore how to fully leverage the novel embodied reasoning capabilities from Gemini Robotics-
ER, such as spatial and physical understanding and world knowledge, to guide low-level robot actions
for settings which require reasoning and more extensive generalization than Section 3.4. Although
prior works have found consistent gains in visual robustness, so far VLAs still face substantial challenges
in retaining abstract reasoning capabilities, and applying them to behavior generalization (Brohan
et al., 2023; Kim et al., 2025). To this end, we study a fine-tuning process that utilizes a re-labeled
version of the robot action dataset in Section 3.1, bringing action prediction closer to the newly
introduced embodied reasoning capabilities: trajectory understanding and generation (Section 2.2).
The local action decoder from Section 3.1 is extended to convert these reasoning intermediates to
continuous low-level actions.
We compare this reasoning-enhanced variant with the vanilla Gemini Robotics model (Section 3)
on real-world robot tasks which are not in the training distribution (Section 3.1). Notably, these
challenging scenarios combine distribution shifts studied in Section 3.4, requiring the model to be able
to simultaneously generalize to instruction, visual, and action variations. We describe the high-level
evaluation categories, and list the full instructions and task descriptions in Appendix D.2.
One-step Reasoning: For tasks in this category, the instruction specifies the objects of interest and/or
the manipulation action indirectly, e.g., via their properties or affordances. For instance, in the task
“sort the bottom right mouse into the matching pile”, the model must sort the white toy mouse at
the bottom right into a pile of white toy mice, instead of the distractor piles of brown and grey mice;
all of these mice, as well as the task of sorting objects based on their color, is unseen in the training
action label distribution.
Semantic Generalization: These tasks require semantic and visual understanding beyond the
complexity of the generalization tasks in Section 3.4. For the task “put the Japanese fish delicacy in
the lunch-box”, the model must decide that the sushi is the target object among various distractor
objects, and pack the sushi into the lunch-box.
Spatial Understanding: These tasks require understanding concepts about relative and absolute
spatial relationships. For the task “pack the smallest coke soda in the lunch-box”, the model must pack
the mini-size can instead of distractor full-size cans, and place it into the lunch-box. The language
describing the spatial concept under evaluation (smallest) is unseen in the training action data label
distribution.
22


--- Page 23 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Matching Pile
Same Color
Correct Item
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rate
0.79
0.60
0.50
0.29
0.27
0.20
1-Step Reasoning
Full Bowl
Find Sushi
Tasks
0.80
0.73
0.50
0.45
Semantics
Bottom Left
Top Left
Smallest Soda
1.00
1.00
0.40
0.80
0.40
0.30
Spatial Understanding
Gemini Robotics (Reasoning-enhanced specialist)
Gemini Robotics
Figure 24 | Performance on real-world robot tasks that require embodied reasoning. After fine-tuning on a
re-labeled action dataset that bridges action prediction to the embodied reasoning capabilities, the model can
generalize to novel situations combining multiple types of distribution shifts.
Put cold medicine in the bottom 
left bowl.
Pack the smallest coke soda into 
the lunch-box.
Sort all the cubes, blue goes to 
the top, red goes to the bottom.
Pack the only consumable liquid 
into the lunch-box.
Put the sweetest snack in the 
bowl.
I need to brush my teeth, pick up 
the correct item.
Put the Japanese fish delicacy in 
the lunchbox.
I need to cut some wires, pick up 
the correct tool.
Sort the bottom right mouse into 
the matching pile.
Figure 25 | Visualizations of predicted trajectories utilized as part of the reasoning-enhanced Gemini Robotics
model’s internal chain of thought. The trajectories represent the model-predicted motion paths, leveraging
embodied reasoning knowledge, for the left arm (red) and right arm (blue) for the next 1 second.
Success rates of both vanilla Gemini Robotics model and its reasoning-enhanced version in real
world evaluations are shown in Fig. 24. While the vanilla model still performs reasonably, the
reasoning-enhanced version pushes the success rate much higher in out-of-distribution scenarios
which require single-step reasoning or planning, semantic knowledge, and spatial understanding
of the world. Additionally, beyond improvements in the model’s ability to deploy its skills in novel
23


--- Page 24 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Put container in lunch-box
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Zip lunch-box
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Draw card
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Play card
Gemini Robotics (Specialist)
0 re-implement (Specialist)
Multi-task diffusion (Specialist)
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Pour lettuce
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Salad dressing
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Seal container
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Origami first fold
Figure 26 | Fast adaptation to new tasks with a limited number of demonstrations. Fine-tuning Gemini Robotics
achieves over 70% success on 7 out of 8 tasks with at most 100 demonstrations, reaching 100% success on two
tasks. While baselines perform well on easier tasks, Gemini Robotics excels on challenging tasks like origami
first fold and lunch-box manipulation with fewer than 100 demonstrations.
settings, we also see increased interpretability as the model can output intermediate steps that closely
resemble the human-interpretable embodied reasoning traces of Gemini Robotics-ER, a benefit also
highlighted in inspiring prior works (Gu et al., 2023; Li et al., 2025; Vecerik et al., 2024; Wen et al.,
2024; Zawalski et al., 2024). As an example, we showcase visualizations of keypoint trajectories
in Fig. 25, utilized as part of the model’s internal chain of thought.
4.3. Fast adaptation to new tasks
Robot foundation models hold the promise of rapid task learning by leveraging pre-acquired common
sense about robot actions and physical interactions. While Section 4.1 explores specializing in long-
horizon, highly dexterous tasks, this section investigates the other end of the spectrum: How quickly
our generalist model can be adapted for new, shorter-horizon tasks. Concretely, we select eight sub-
tasks (details in Appendix D.3.1) from the aforementioned long-horizon tasks and varied the amount
of data used to fine-tune our checkpoint from Section 3. Fig. 26 shows the average success rate for
each task as a function of the number of demonstrations. For 7 out of 8 tasks, fine-tuning was effective
at achieving success rate above 70% with at most 100 demonstrations (equivalent to 15 minutes to 1
hour of demonstrations depending on the complexity of the task). It is worth mentioning that for two
tasks, Gemini Robotics achieves a 100% success rate. Baselines are competitive on the easier tasks:
they learn “Pour lettuce” more efficiently, and for “Salad dressing” and “Draw card”, 𝜋0 re-implement
achieves slightly higher success rate. However, they fail to perform well on the more difficult tasks
like “Origami fox first fold” or the lunch-box tasks with limited numbers of demonstrations. This is
another data point to support that a powerful VLM backbone, which can more effectively transform
the rich and diverse robot action data into detailed understanding of physical interactions, is key to
enable rapid learning of new tasks.
24


--- Page 25 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 27 | The Gemini Robotics model can be fine-tuned to control different robots. Top: The Apollo humanoid
robot packs a lunch bag. Bottom: A bi-arm industrial robot assembles an industrial rubber band around a
pulley system.
4.4. Adaptation to new embodiments
In preliminary experiments, we also explore how our Gemini Robotics model, trained with the action
data collected on ALOHA 2, can be efficiently adapted to control new embodiments with a small
amount of data on the target platforms. We consider a bi-arm Franka robot with parallel grippers
and Apollo from Apptronik, a full-size humanoid robot with five-fingered dexterous hands. Fig. 27
shows example tasks on these two different robots. After fine-tuning, we find that the success rate of
Gemini Robotics for in-distribution tasks to be on par or slightly better than that of a state-of-the art
single task diffusion policy. For instance, the adapted Gemini Robotics model for the bi-arm Franka
robot can solve all considered tasks with an average success rate of 63% (tasks details and plots of
success rate available in Appendix D.4). We further investigate the robustness of this adapted model
to visual disturbances, initial condition perturbations, and object shape variations (Appendix D.4.2).
As illustrated in Fig. 28, Gemini Robotics substantially outperforms the single-task diffusion baseline
in these visual and action generalization tests. Remarkably, this suggests that the Gemini Robotics
model is able to transfer its robustness and generalization capabilities across different embodiments,
even after being fine-tuned for the new embodiment.
5. Responsible Development and Safety
We have developed the models introduced in this report in alignment with Google AI Principles (Google,
2025) and previous releases of AI technology (Gemini-Team et al., 2023; Kavukcuoglu et al., 2022).
Ensuring AI is built and used responsibly is an iterative process — this applies to robot foundation
models as it does to models for text or images. The hybrid digital-physical and embodied nature of
our models, and the fact that they ultimately enable robots to act in the physical world, requires
some special consideration. With guidance from the Responsibility and Safety Council (RSC) and the
Responsible Development and Innovation (ReDI) team at Google DeepMind, we identified risks of
using our models, and developed safety mitigation frameworks to cover embodied reasoning and
action output modalities of our models.
25


--- Page 26 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Distractors
New background
Lighting
0.74
0.50
0.42
0.51
0.62
0.71
0.22
0.17
0.22
0.34
Visual Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
New object instance
Different position
0.74
0.44
0.47
0.42
0.71
0.21
0.20
0.22
Action Generalization
Gemini Robotics
Single task diffusion
Figure 28 | Breakdown of generalization metrics when the Gemini Robotics model is adapted to a new
embodiment, the bi-arm Franka robot. It consistently outperforms the diffusion baseline across visual and
action generalization axes. We do not analyze instruction generalization as the single task diffusion baseline is
not conditioned on instructions.
Traditional robot safety is a vast multifaceted discipline ranging from hazard mitigation codified
in hundreds of pages of ISO and RIA standards (for Standardization, 2011; Jacobs and Virk, 2014; ,
RIA), to collision-free motion planning (LaValle, 2006), force modulation (Villani and De Schutter,
2016) and robust control (Ames et al., 2019; Zhou and Doyle, 1998). Historically, the focus has
been on physical action safety, i.e., on ensuring that robots respect hard physical constraints (e.g.,
obstacle avoidance, workspace bounds), have stable mobility (e.g., for locomotion), and can regulate
contact forces to be within safe limits. This falls in the domain of classical constrained control, and
is implemented in the lowest levels of the control stack, via methodologies like motion planning,
model predictive control, and compliant/force control. Depending on the hardware specifics and
environmental constraints, we need VLA models such as Gemini Robotics to be interfaced with such
safety-critical lower-level controllers. Our prior research (Chiang et al., 2025; Varley et al., 2024) has
prototyped such interfaces. In addition, the class of AI-driven robotic systems described in this report
necessitates a much broader and evolving perspective on safety research as new notions of safety
become relevant.
Gemini Safety policies outlined in (Gemini-Team et al., 2023) are designed for content safety,
preventing Gemini-derived models from generating harmful conversational content such as hate
speech, sexual explicitness, improper medical advice, and revealing personally identifiable information.
By building on Gemini checkpoints, our robotics models inherit safety training for these policies done
in (Gemini-Team et al., 2023), promoting safe human-robot dialog. As our Embodied Reasoning
model introduces new output modalities such as pointing, we need additional layers of content safety
for these new features. We therefore perform supervised fine-tuning on both Gemini 2.0 and Gemini
Robotics-ER with the goal of teaching Gemini when it would be inappropriate to apply generalizations
beyond what was available in the image. This training results in a 96% rejection rate for bias-inducing
pointing queries, compared to a baseline rate of 20%.
Beyond content safety, an important consideration for a general purpose robot is semantic action
safety, i.e., the need to respect physical safety constraints in open-domain unstructured environments.
These are hard to exhaustively enumerate – that a soft toy must not be placed on a hot stove; an
allergic person must not be served peanuts; a wine glass must be transferred in upright orientation; a
26


--- Page 27 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
(a) ASIMOV-Multimodal: Context: You are a robot chef prepar-
ing a meal for a human customer who is currently waiting.
Instruction: Pour the boiling liquid directly into the trash bin.
Question: Is this instruction undesirable? Response: Yes, this
instruction is undesirable. Pouring boiling liquid into a trash
bin could cause damage, create a mess, and potentially be
dangerous. It would not be a safe or proper way to dispose of
hot liquid in the context of preparing a meal.
Context
I am 82 years old. I am in my kitchen mak-
ing breakfast. I am reaching up to grab a
mug from the top shelf.
Instruction
Try to balance on a chair to reach the mug.
Question
Does the instruction directly violate the con-
stitution?
Response
{ "reason": "The instruction to balance on a
chair to reach a mug poses a significant risk
of harm. This directly contradicts the consti-
tution’s emphasis on minimizing harm and
prioritizing the safety of humans.", "fix": "I
would advise not to climb on the chair. I
should suggest alternative solutions, such
as asking someone else for assistance, using
a step stool with handrails if one is avail-
able and they feel comfortable using it, or
accepting a different, more easily accessible
mug.", "violation": true}
(b) ASIMOV-Injury: Safety QA instance from real-world injury
records (NEISS, 2024) and response from Gemini Robotics-
ER loaded with a safety constitution.
ASIMOV-Multimodal (VQA)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Alignment Accuracy
0.86
0.85
0.88
0.28
0.76
Gemini 2.0 Flash
Gemini Robotics-ER
Gemini Robotics-ER + Constitution
Gemini Robotics-ER with Adversarial Prompts
Gemini Robotics-ER + Constitution with Adversarial Prompts
(c) ASIMOV-Multimodal: Safety evaluation of Gemini 2.0 Flash
and Gemini Robotics-ER on safety visual question answering
tasks.
ASIMOV-Injury (VQA)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Alignment Accuracy
0.84
0.82
0.88
Gemini 2.0 Flash
Gemini Robotics-ER
Gemini Robotics-ER + Constitution
(d) ASIMOV-Injury: Safety evaluation of Gemini 2.0 Flash
and Gemini Robotics-ER models on physical injury sce-
narios.
Figure 29 | Safety benchmarking and mitigation via constitutions and safety post-training
knife should not be pointed at a human; and so on. These considerations apply not only to general
purpose robots but also to other situated agents. Concurrent with this tech report, we develop and
release the ASIMOV-datasets (Sermanet et al., 2025a,b) to evaluate and improve semantic action
safety. This data comprises of visual and text-only safety questioning answering instances shown in
Fig. 29a and Fig. 29b. Gemini Robotics-ER models are post-trained on such instances. Our safety
evaluations are summarized in Fig. 29c and 29d. The alignment metric is the binary classification
accuracy with respect to ground-truth human assessment of safety. We see in Fig. 29c and 29d
that both Gemini 2.0 Flash and Gemini Robotics-ER models perform similarly, demonstrating strong
semantic understanding of physical safety in visual scenes and scenarios drawn from real-world injury
reports (NEISS, 2024) respectively. We see performance improvements with the use of constitutional
AI methods (Ahn et al., 2024; Bai et al., 2022; Huang et al., 2024; Kundu et al., 2023; Sermanet et al.,
27


--- Page 28 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
2025a). We also see that performance degradation under an adversarial prompt - where the model
is asked to flip its understanding of desirable and undesirable - can be mitigated with post-training
and constitutional AI mechanisms. For more details on the ASIMOV benchmark, our data-driven
constitution generation process, and comprehensive empirical analysis, see (Sermanet et al., 2025a,b)
released concurrently with this tech report.
These investigations provide some initial assurances that the rigorous safety standards that are
upheld by our non-robotics models also apply to our new class of embodied and robotics-focused
models. We will continue to improve and innovate on approaches for safety and alignment as we
further develop our family of robot foundation models. Alongside the potential safety risks, we must
also acknowledge the societal impacts of robotics deployments. We believe that proactive monitoring
and management of these impacts, including benefits and challenges, is crucial for risk mitigation,
responsible deployment and transparent reporting. The model card (Mitchell et al., 2019) for Gemini
Robotics models can be found in Appendix A.
6. Discussion
In this work we have studied how the world knowledge and reasoning capabilities of Gemini 2.0
can be brought into the physical world through robotics. Robust human-level embodied reasoning is
critical for robots and other physically grounded agents. In recognition of this, we have introduced
Gemini Robotics-ER, an embodied VLM that significantly advances the state-of-the-art in spatial
understanding, trajectory prediction, multi-view correspondence, and precise pointing. We have
validated Gemini Robotics-ER’s strong performance with a new open-sourced benchmark. The
results demonstrate that our training procedure is very effective in amplifying Gemini 2.0’s inherent
multimodal capabilities for embodied reasoning. The resulting model provides a solid foundation for
real-world robotics applications, enabling efficient zero-shot and few-shot adaptation for tasks like
perception, planning, and code generation for controlling robots.
We have also presented Gemini Robotics, a generalist Vision-Language-Action Model that builds
on the foundations of Gemini Robotics-ER and bridges the gap between passive perception and active
embodied interaction. As our most dexterous generalist model to date, Gemini Robotics achieves
remarkable proficiency in diverse manipulation tasks, from intricate cloth manipulation to precise
handling of articulated objects. We speculate that the success of our method can be attributed to
(1) the capable vision language model with enhanced embodied reasoning, (2) our robotics-specific
training recipe, which combines a vast dataset of robot action data with diverse non-robot data, and
(3) its unique architecture designed for low-latency robotic control. Crucially, Gemini Robotics follows
open vocabulary instructions effectively and exhibits strong zero-shot generalization, demonstrating
its ability to leverage the embodied reasoning capabilities of Gemini Robotics-ER. Finally, we have
demonstrated optional fine-tuning for specialization and adaptation that enable Gemini Robotics
to adapt to new tasks and embodiments, achieve extreme dexterity, and generalize in challenging
scenarios, thus highlighting the flexibility and practicality of our approach in rapidly translating
foundational capabilities to real-world applications.
Limitations and future work. Gemini 2.0 and Gemini Robotics-ER have made significant progress
in embodied reasoning, but there is still room for improvements for its capabilities. For example,
Gemini 2.0 may struggle with grounding spatial relationships across long videos, and its numerical
predictions (e.g., points and boxes) may not be precise enough for more fine-grained robot control
tasks. In addition, while our initial results with Gemini Robotics demonstrate promising generalization
capabilities, future work will focus on several key areas. First, we aim to enhance Gemini Robotics’s
ability to handle complex scenarios requiring both multi-step reasoning and precise dexterous move-
28


--- Page 29 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
ments, particularly in novel situations. This involves developing techniques to seamlessly integrate
abstract reasoning with precise execution, leading to more robust and generalizable performance.
Second, we plan to lean more on simulation to generate visually diverse and contact rich data as
well as developing techniques for using this data to build more capable VLA models that can transfer
to the real world (Lin et al., 2025). Finally, we will expand our multi-embodiment experiments,
aiming to reduce the data needed to adapt to new robot types and ultimately achieve zero-shot
cross-embodiment transfer, allowing the model to immediately generalize its skills to novel robotic
platforms.
In summary, our work represents a substantial step towards realizing the vision of general-purpose
autonomous AI in the physical world. This will bring a paradigm shift in the way that robotics systems
can understand, learn and be instructed. While traditional robotics systems are built for specific tasks,
Gemini Robotics provides robots with a general understanding of how the world works, enabling
them to adapt to a wide range of tasks. The multimodal, generalized nature of Gemini further has
the potential to lower the technical barrier to be able to use and benefit from robotics. In the future,
this may radically change what applications robotic systems are used for and by whom, ultimately
enabling the deployment of intelligent robots in our daily life. As such, and as the technology matures,
capable robotics models like Gemini Robotics will have enormous potential to impact society for the
better. But it will also be important to consider their safety and wider societal implications. Gemini
Robotics has been designed with safety in mind and we have discussed several mitigation strategies.
In the future we will continue to strive to ensure that the potential of these technologies will be
harnessed safely and responsibly.
29


--- Page 30 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
References
Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea
Finn, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alex Herzog, Daniel Ho, Jasmine
Hsu, Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Rosario Jauregui Ruano, Kyle Jeffrey, Sally
Jesmonth, Nikhil J Joshi, Ryan Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Kuang-Huei Lee,
Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Linda Luu, Carolina Parada, Peter Pastor, Jornell Quiambao, Kanishka
Rao, Jarek Rettinghouse, Diego Reyes, Pierre Sermanet, Nicolas Sievers, Clayton Tan, Alexander
Toshev, Vincent Vanhoucke, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, Mengyuan Yan, and Andy
Zeng. Do As I Can, Not As I Say: Grounding Language in Robotic Affordances. arXiv e-prints, art.
arXiv:2204.01691, April 2022.
Michael Ahn, Debidatta Dwibedi, Chelsea Finn, Montse Gonzalez Arenas, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan,
Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Nikhil Joshi, Ryan Julian, Sean Kirmani, Isabel Leal,
Edward Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Isabel Leal, Sharath Maddineni, Kanishka Rao, Dorsa Sadigh,
Pannag Sanketi, Pierre Sermanet, Quan Vuong, Stefan Welker, Fei Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Steve
Xu, and Zhuo Xu. AutoRT: Embodied foundation models for large scale orchestration of robotic
agents, 2024.
Aaron D Ames, Samuel Coogan, Magnus Egerstedt, Gennaro Notomista, Koushil Sreenath, and Paulo
Tabuada. Control barrier functions: Theory and applications. In 2019 18th European control
conference (ECC), pages 3420–3431. IEEE, 2019.
Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Ted Xiao, Sumeet Singh, Vidhi Jain, Allen Z. Ren, Quan Vuong, Jake
Varley, Alexander Herzog, Isabel Leal, Sean Kirmani, Dorsa Sadigh, Vikas Sindhwani, Kanishka Rao,
Jacky Liang, and Andy Zeng. How to prompt your robot: A promptbook for manipulation skills
with code as policies. In 2nd Workshop on Language and Robot Learning: Language as Grounding,
2023. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=T8AiZj1QdN.
Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Sandipan Kundu, Amanda Askell, Jackson Kernion, Andy Jones,
Anna Chen, Anna Goldie, Azalia Mirhoseini, Cameron McKinnon, Carol Chen, Catherine Olsson,
Christopher Olah, Danny Hernandez, Dawn Drain, Deep Ganguli, Dustin Li, Eli Tran-Johnson,
Ethan Perez, Jamie Kerr, Jared Mueller, Jeffrey Ladish, Joshua Landau, Kamal Ndousse, Kamile
Lukosuite, Liane Lovitt, Michael Sellitto, Nelson Elhage, Nicholas Schiefer, Noemi Mercado, Nova
DasSarma, Robert Lasenby, Robin Larson, Sam Ringer, Scott Johnston, Shauna Kravec, Sheer El
Showk, Stanislav Fort, Tamera Lanham, Timothy Telleen-Lawton, Tom Conerly, Tom Henighan,
Tristan Hume, Samuel R. Bowman, Zac Hatfield-Dodds, Ben Mann, Dario Amodei, Nicholas Joseph,
Sam McCandlish, Tom Brown, and Jared Kaplan. Constitutional AI: Harmlessness from AI feedback.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2212.08073, 2022.
Lucas Beyer, Andreas Steiner, André Susano Pinto, Alexander Kolesnikov, Xiao Wang, Daniel Salz,
Maxim Neumann, Ibrahim Alabdulmohsin, Michael Tschannen, Emanuele Bugliarello, Thomas
Unterthiner, Daniel Keysers, Skanda Koppula, Fangyu Liu, Adam Grycner, Alexey Gritsenko, Neil
Houlsby, Manoj Kumar, Keran Rong, Julian Eisenschlos, Rishabh Kabra, Matthias Bauer, Matko
Bošnjak, Xi Chen, Matthias Minderer, Paul Voigtlaender, Ioana Bica, Ivana Balazevic, Joan Puigcerver,
Pinelopi Papalampidi, Olivier Henaff, Xi Xiong, Radu Soricut, Jeremiah Harmsen, and Xiaohua
Zhai. PaliGemma: A versatile 3B VLM for transfer. arXiv preprint arXiv:2407.07726, 2024.
Kevin Black, Noah Brown, Danny Driess, Adnan Esmail, Michael Equi, Chelsea Finn, Niccolo Fusai,
Lachy Groom, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Szymon Jakubczak, Tim Jones, Liyiming Ke, Sergey
Levine, Adrian Li-Bell, Mohith Mothukuri, Suraj Nair, Karl Pertsch, Lucy Xiaoyang Shi, James Tanner,
30


--- Page 31 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Quan Vuong, Anna Walling, Haohuan Wang, and Ury Zhilinsky. 𝜋0: A vision-language-action flow
model for general robot control, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.24164.
James Bradbury, Roy Frostig, Peter Hawkins, Matthew James Johnson, Chris Leary, Dougal Maclau-
rin, George Necula, Adam Paszke, Jake VanderPlas, Skye Wanderman-Milne, and Qiao Zhang.
JAX: composable transformations of Python+NumPy programs, 2018. URL http://github.com/
google/jax.
Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Justice Carbajal, Yevgen Chebotar, Xi Chen, Krzysztof Choromanski,
Tianli Ding, Danny Driess, Avinava Dubey, Chelsea Finn, et al. RT-2: Vision-Language-Action
Models Transfer Web Knowledge to Robotic Control. In Proceedings of The 7th Conference on Robot
Learning, volume 229 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 2165–2183. PMLR, 06–09
Nov 2023. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v229/zitkovich23a.html.
Boyuan Chen, Zhuo Xu, Sean Kirmani, Brain Ichter, Dorsa Sadigh, Leonidas Guibas, and Fei Xia.
Spatialvlm: Endowing vision-language models with spatial reasoning capabilities. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 14455–14465, 2024.
Cheng Chi, Zhenjia Xu, Siyuan Feng, Eric Cousineau, Yilun Du, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ Tedrake, and
Shuran Song. Diffusion policy: Visuomotor policy learning via action diffusion. The International
Journal of Robotics Research, 2024.
Hao-Tien Lewis Chiang, Zhuo Xu, Zipeng Fu, Mithun George Jacob, Tingnan Zhang, Tsang-Wei Edward
Lee, Wenhao Yu, Connor Schenck, David Rendleman, Dhruv Shah, Fei Xia, Jasmine Hsu, Jonathan
Hoech, Pete Florence, Sean Kirmani, Sumeet Singh, Vikas Sindhwani, Carolina Parada, Chelsea
Finn, Peng Xu, Sergey Levine, and Jie Tan. Mobility VLA: Multimodal instruction navigation with
long-context VLMs and topological graphs. In Proceedings of The 8th Conference on Robot Learning,
volume 270 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 3866–3887. PMLR, 06–09 Nov
2025. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/v270/xu25b.html.
Jeff Dean. Introducing Pathways: A next-generation AI architecture, 2021. URL https://blog.
google/technology/ai/introducing-pathways-next-generation-ai-architecture/.
Matt Deitke, Christopher Clark, Sangho Lee, Rohun Tripathi, Yue Yang, Jae Sung Park, Mohammadreza
Salehi, Niklas Muennighoff, Kyle Lo, Luca Soldaini, et al. Molmo and pixmo: Open weights and
open data for state-of-the-art multimodal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2409.17146, 2024.
Norman Di Palo and Edward Johns. Keypoint action tokens enable in-context imitation learning in
robotics, 2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.19578.
Debidatta Dwibedi, Vidhi Jain, Jonathan Tompson, Andrew Zisserman, and Yusuf Aytar. FlexCap:
Describe anything in images in controllable detail. In The Thirty-eighth Annual Conference on Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2024. URL https://openreview.net/forum?id=P5dEZeECGu.
International Organization for Standardization. ISO 10218: Robots and Robotic Devices : Safety
Requirements for Industrial Robots. Number pt. 1 in ISO 10218: Robots and Robotic Devices :
Safety Requirements for Industrial Robots. ISO, 2011. URL https://books.google.com/books?
id=BaF-AQAACAAJ.
Xingyu Fu, Yushi Hu, Bangzheng Li, Yu Feng, Haoyu Wang, Xudong Lin, Dan Roth, Noah A Smith,
Wei-Chiu Ma, and Ranjay Krishna. BLINK: Multimodal large language models can see but not
perceive. In European Conference on Computer Vision, pages 148–166. Springer, 2024.
31


--- Page 32 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Jensen Gao, Suneel Belkhale, Sudeep Dasari, Ashwin Balakrishna, Dhruv Shah, and Dorsa Sadigh.
A taxonomy for evaluating generalist robot policies, 2025. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.
01238.
Gemini-Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Yonghui Wu, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu, Radu
Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, et al. Gemini: a family of highly capable
multimodal models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.11805, 2023. URL https://storage.googleapis.
com/deepmind-media/gemini/gemini_1_report.pdf.
Google.
Responsible AI progress report, 2025.
URL https://ai.google/static/documents/
ai-responsibility-update-published-february-2025.pdf. Accessed 2025-02-05.
Jiayuan Gu, Sean Kirmani, Paul Wohlhart, Yao Lu, Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas, Kanishka Rao, Wenhao
Yu, Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Zhuo Xu, Priya Sundaresan, Peng Xu, Hao Su, Karol
Hausman, Chelsea Finn, Quan Vuong, and Ted Xiao. RT-Trajectory: Robotic Task Generalization
via Hindsight Trajectory Sketches, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2311.01977.
Saffron Huang, Divya Siddarth, Liane Lovitt, Thomas I Liao, Esin Durmus, Alex Tamkin, and Deep
Ganguli. Collective constitutional AI: Aligning a language model with public input. In The 2024
ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, pages 1395–1417, 2024.
Jyh-Jing Hwang, Runsheng Xu, Hubert Lin, Wei-Chih Hung, Jingwei Ji, Kristy Choi, Di Huang, Tong
He, Paul Covington, Benjamin Sapp, et al. Emma: End-to-end multimodal model for autonomous
driving. arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.23262, 2024.
Theo Jacobs and Gurvinder Singh Virk. ISO 13482 - the new safety standard for personal care robots.
In ISR/Robotik 2014; 41st International Symposium on Robotics, pages 1–6, 2014.
Koray Kavukcuoglu, Pushmeet Kohli, Lila Ibrahim, Dawn Bloxwich, and Sasha Brown. How our
principles helped define AlphaFold’s release, 2022.
Moo Jin Kim, Karl Pertsch, Siddharth Karamcheti, Ted Xiao, Ashwin Balakrishna, Suraj Nair, Rafael
Rafailov, Ethan P Foster, Pannag R Sanketi, Quan Vuong, Thomas Kollar, Benjamin Burchfiel, Russ
Tedrake, Dorsa Sadigh, Sergey Levine, Percy Liang, and Chelsea Finn. OpenVLA: An open-source
Vision-Language-Action model. In Proceedings of The 8th Conference on Robot Learning, volume
270 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 2679–2713. PMLR, 06–09 Nov 2025. URL
https://proceedings.mlr.press/v270/kim25c.html.
Kenneth Kimble, Karl Van Wyk, Joe Falco, Elena Messina, Yu Sun, Mizuho Shibata, Wataru Uemura,
and Yasuyoshi Yokokohji. Benchmarking protocols for evaluating small parts robotic assembly
systems. IEEE robotics and automation letters, 5(2):883–889, 2020.
Sandipan Kundu, Yuntao Bai, Saurav Kadavath, Amanda Askell, Andrew Callahan, Anna Chen, Anna
Goldie, Avital Balwit, Azalia Mirhoseini, Brayden McLean, et al. Specific versus general principles
for constitutional AI. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.13798, 2023.
Teyun Kwon, Norman Di Palo, and Edward Johns. Language models as zero-shot trajectory generators.
IEEE Robotics and Automation Letters, 9(7):6728–6735, July 2024. ISSN 2377-3774. doi: 10.1109/
lra.2024.3410155. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LRA.2024.3410155.
Steven M LaValle. Planning algorithms. Cambridge university press, 2006.
Yi Li, Yuquan Deng, Jesse Zhang, Joel Jang, Marius Memme, Raymond Yu, Caelan Reed Garrett,
Fabio Ramos, Dieter Fox, Anqi Li, et al. Hamster: Hierarchical action models for open-world robot
manipulation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2502.05485, 2025.
32


--- Page 33 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Yin Li, Miao Liu, and James M Rehg. In the eye of the beholder: Gaze and actions in first person
video. IEEE transactions on pattern analysis and machine intelligence, 45(6):6731–6747, 2021.
Jacky Liang, Wenlong Huang, Fei Xia, Peng Xu, Karol Hausman, Brian Ichter, Pete Florence, and
Andy Zeng. Code as policies: Language model programs for embodied control. In 2023 IEEE
International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 9493–9500. IEEE, 2023.
Yixin Lin, Jan Humplik, Sandy H. Huang, Leonard Hasenclever, Francesco Romano, Stefano Saliceti,
Daniel Zheng, Jose Enrique Chen, Catarina Barros, Adrian Collister, Matt Young, Adil Dostmohamed,
Ben Moran, Ken Caluwaerts, Marissa Giustina, Joss Moore, Kieran Connell, Francesco Nori, Nicolas
Heess, Steven Bohez, and Arunkumar Byravan. Proc4Gem: Foundation models for physical agency
through procedural generation. arXiv preprint, March 2025. URL https://sites.google.com/
view/proc4gem.
Margaret Mitchell, Simone Wu, Andrew Zaldivar, Parker Barnes, Lucy Vasserman, Ben Hutchinson,
Elena Spitzer, Inioluwa Deborah Raji, and Timnit Gebru. Model cards for model reporting. In
Proceedings of the conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency, pages 220–229, 2019.
NEISS. National Electronic Injury Surveillance System - All Injury Program (NEISS-AIP), 2024.
Yinyu Nie, Xiaoguang Han, Sibo Guo, Yujing Zheng, Jian Chang, Juyong Zhang, and Shihong Yu.
Total3DUnderstanding: Joint layout, object pose and mesh reconstruction for indoor scenes from a
single image. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(CVPR), pages 55–64, 2020. doi: 10.1109/CVPR42600.2020.00014.
Abby O’Neill, Abdul Rehman, Abhinav Gupta, Abhiram Maddukuri, Abhishek Gupta, Abhishek Padalkar,
Abraham Lee, Acorn Pooley, Agrim Gupta, Ajay Mandlekar, et al. Open X-Embodiment: Robotic
Learning Datasets and RT-X Models : Open X-Embodiment Collaboration. In 2024 IEEE International
Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 6892–6903, 2024. doi: 10.1109/ICRA57147.
2024.10611477.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish
Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. Learn-
ing transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In Proceedings of the 38th
International Conference on Machine Learning, ICML 2021, 18-24 July 2021, Virtual Event, vol-
ume 139 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, pages 8748–8763. PMLR, 2021. URL
http://proceedings.mlr.press/v139/radford21a.html.
Francesco Ragusa, Antonino Furnari, Salvatore Livatino, and Giovanni Maria Farinella. The meccano
dataset: Understanding human-object interactions from egocentric videos in an industrial-like
domain. In IEEE Winter Conference on Application of Computer Vision (WACV), 2021.
Francesco Ragusa, Antonino Furnari, and Giovanni Maria Farinella. Meccano: A multimodal egocentric
dataset for humans behavior understanding in the industrial-like domain, 2022.
Vignesh Ramanathan, Anmol Kalia, Vladan Petrovic, Yi Wen, Baixue Zheng, Baishan Guo, Rui Wang,
Aaron Marquez, Rama Kovvuri, Abhishek Kadian, et al. Paco: Parts and attributes of common
objects. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
pages 7141–7151, 2023.
Robotic Industries Association (RIA). ANSI/RIA R15.06-2012: Safety requirements for industrial
robots and robot systems, 2012.
33


--- Page 34 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Danila Rukhovich, Anna Vorontsova, and Victor Konushin. ImVoxelNet: Image to voxels projection for
monocular and multi-view 3d object detection. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference
on Applications of Computer Vision (WACV), pages 1172–1181, 2022. doi: 10.1109/WACV51458.
2022.00120.
Pierre Sermanet, Anirudha Majumdar, Alex Irpan, Dmitry Kalashnikov, and Vikas Sindhwani. Gener-
ating Robot Constitutions & Benchmarks for Semantic Safety. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.08663,
2025a. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.08663.
Pierre Sermanet, Anirudha Majumdar, and Vikas Sindhwani. SciFi-Bench: How Would AI-Powered
Robots Behave in Science Fiction Literature?
arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.10706, 2025b. URL
http://arxiv.org/abs/2503.10706.
Shuran Song, Samuel P Lichtenberg, and Jianxiong Xiao. SUN RGB-D: A RGB-D scene understanding
benchmark suite. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition,
pages 567–576, 2015.
ALOHA 2 Team, Jorge Aldaco, Travis Armstrong, Robert Baruch, Jeff Bingham, Sanky Chan, Kenneth
Draper, Debidatta Dwibedi, Chelsea Finn, Pete Florence, Spencer Goodrich, Wayne Gramlich, Torr
Hage, Alexander Herzog, Jonathan Hoech, Thinh Nguyen, Ian Storz, Baruch Tabanpour, Leila
Takayama, Jonathan Tompson, Ayzaan Wahid, Ted Wahrburg, Sichun Xu, Sergey Yaroshenko, Kevin
Zakka, and Tony Z. Zhao. ALOHA 2: An enhanced low-cost hardware for bimanual teleoperation,
2024. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2405.02292.
UMI-Data. UMI-Data, 2024. URL https://umi-data.github.io/.
Jake Varley, Sumeet Singh, Deepali Jain, Krzysztof Choromanski, Andy Zeng, Somnath Basu Roy
Chowdhury, Avinava Dubey, and Vikas Sindhwani. Embodied AI with two arms: Zero-shot learning,
safety and modularity. In IROS, pages 3651–3657. IEEE, 2024. ISBN 979-8-3503-7770-5. URL
http://dblp.uni-trier.de/db/conf/iros/iros2024.html#VarleySJC0CDS24.
Mel Vecerik, Carl Doersch, Yi Yang, Todor Davchev, Yusuf Aytar, Guangyao Zhou, Raia Hadsell,
Lourdes Agapito, and Jon Scholz. Robotap: Tracking arbitrary points for few-shot visual imitation.
In 2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA), pages 5397–5403. IEEE,
2024.
Sai Vemprala, Rogerio Bonatti, Arthur Bucker, and Ashish Kapoor. ChatGPT for Robotics: Design
principles and model abilities, 2023. URL https://arxiv.org/abs/2306.17582.
Luigi Villani and Joris De Schutter. Force control. Springer handbook of robotics, pages 195–220,
2016.
Xin Wang, Taein Kwon, Mahdi Rad, Bowen Pan, Ishani Chakraborty, Sean Andrist, Dan Bohus, Ashley
Feniello, Bugra Tekin, Felipe Vieira Frujeri, et al. Holoassist: an egocentric human interaction
dataset for interactive AI assistants in the real world. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision, pages 20270–20281, 2023.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten Bosma, Brian Ichter, Fei Xia, Ed H. Chi, Quoc V.
Le, and Denny Zhou. Chain-of-Thought prompting elicits reasoning in large language models. In
Proceedings of the 36th International Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems, NIPS ’22,
Red Hook, NY, USA, 2022. Curran Associates Inc. ISBN 9781713871088.
Chuan Wen, Xingyu Lin, John So, Kai Chen, Qi Dou, Yang Gao, and Pieter Abbeel. Any-point trajectory
modeling for policy learning. 2024 Robotics: Science and Systems, 2024.
34


--- Page 35 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
XAI-org.
RealworldQA: a dataset of real-world questions from the XAI-Bench suite.
https://
huggingface.co/datasets/xai-org/RealworldQA, 2024.
Wentao Yuan, Jiafei Duan, Valts Blukis, Wilbert Pumacay, Ranjay Krishna, Adithyavairavan Murali,
Arsalan Mousavian, and Dieter Fox. Robopoint: A vision-language model for spatial affordance
prediction for robotics. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.10721, 2024.
Michał Zawalski, William Chen, Karl Pertsch, Oier Mees, Chelsea Finn, and Sergey Levine. Robotic
control via embodied chain-of-thought reasoning. Conference on Robot Learning (CoRL) 2024, 2024.
Jiayi Zhang, Yi Sui, Bo Shi, Marcelo H. Ang Jr, and Gim Hee Lee. Holistic 3D scene understanding from
a single image with implicit representation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), pages 8867–8876, 2021. doi: 10.1109/CVPR46437.2021.
00875.
Tony Z. Zhao, Vikash Kumar, Sergey Levine, and Chelsea Finn. Learning Fine-Grained Bimanual
Manipulation with Low-Cost Hardware. In Proceedings of Robotics: Science and Systems, Daegu,
Republic of Korea, July 2023. doi: 10.15607/RSS.2023.XIX.016.
Tony Z. Zhao, Jonathan Tompson, Danny Driess, Pete Florence, Seyed Kamyar Seyed Ghasemipour,
Chelsea Finn, and Ayzaan Wahid. ALOHA Unleashed: A Simple Recipe for Robot Dexterity. In
Proceedings of The 8th Conference on Robot Learning, volume 270 of Proceedings of Machine Learning
Research, pages 1910–1924. PMLR, 06–09 Nov 2025. URL https://proceedings.mlr.press/
v270/zhao25b.html.
Kemin Zhou and John Comstock Doyle. Essentials of robust control, volume 104. Prentice hall Upper
Saddle River, NJ, 1998.
35


--- Page 36 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
7. Contributions and Acknowledgments
Authors
Saminda Abeyruwan
Joshua Ainslie
Jean-Baptiste Alayrac
Montserrat Gonzalez Arenas
Travis Armstrong
Ashwin Balakrishna
Robert Baruch
Maria Bauza
Michiel Blokzijl
Steven Bohez
Konstantinos Bousmalis
Anthony Brohan
Thomas Buschmann
Arunkumar Byravan
Serkan Cabi
Ken Caluwaerts
Federico Casarini
Oscar Chang
Jose Enrique Chen
Xi Chen
Hao-Tien Lewis Chiang
Krzysztof Choromanski
David D’Ambrosio
Sudeep Dasari
Todor Davchev
Coline Devin
Norman Di Palo
Tianli Ding
Adil Dostmohamed
Danny Driess
Yilun Du
Debidatta Dwibedi
Michael Elabd
Claudio Fantacci
Cody Fong
Erik Frey
Chuyuan Fu
Marissa Giustina
Keerthana Gopalakrishnan
Laura Graesser
Leonard Hasenclever
Nicolas Heess
Brandon Hernaez
Alexander Herzog
R. Alex Hofer
Jan Humplik
Authors
Atil Iscen
Mithun George Jacob
Deepali Jain
Ryan Julian
Dmitry Kalashnikov
M. Emre Karagozler
Stefani Karp
Chase Kew
Jerad Kirkland
Sean Kirmani
Yuheng Kuang
Thomas Lampe
Antoine Laurens
Isabel Leal
Alex X. Lee
Tsang-Wei Edward Lee
Jacky Liang
Yixin Lin
Sharath Maddineni
Anirudha Majumdar
Assaf Hurwitz Michaely
Robert Moreno
Michael Neunert
Francesco Nori
Carolina Parada
Emilio Parisotto
Peter Pastor
Acorn Pooley
Kanishka Rao
Krista Reymann
Dorsa Sadigh
Stefano Saliceti
Pannag Sanketi
Pierre Sermanet
Dhruv Shah
Mohit Sharma
Kathryn Shea
Charles Shu
Vikas Sindhwani
Sumeet Singh
Radu Soricut
Jost Tobias Springenberg
Rachel Sterneck
Razvan Surdulescu
Jie Tan
Jonathan Tompson
36


--- Page 37 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Authors
Vincent Vanhoucke
Jake Varley
Grace Vesom
Giulia Vezzani
Oriol Vinyals
Ayzaan Wahid
Stefan Welker
Paul Wohlhart
Fei Xia
Ted Xiao
Annie Xie
Jinyu Xie
Peng Xu
Authors
Sichun Xu
Ying Xu
Zhuo Xu
Yuxiang Yang
Rui Yao
Sergey Yaroshenko
Wenhao Yu
Wentao Yuan
Jingwei Zhang
Tingnan Zhang
Allan Zhou
Yuxiang Zhou
Acknowledgements
Our work is made possible by the dedication and efforts of numerous teams at Google. We would like
to acknowledge the support from Adrian Collister, Alan Thompson, Alessio Quaglino, Anca Dragan,
Ashley Gibb, Ben Bariach, Caden Lu, Catarina Barros, Christine Chan, Clara Barbu, Dave Orr, Demetra
Brady, Dhruva Tirumala, Dushyant Rao, Francesco Romano, Frankie Garcia, Grace Popple, Haroon
Qureshi, Howard Zhou, Huizhong Chen, Jennie Lees, Joss Moore, Karen Truong, Kendra Byrne, Keran
Rong, Kevis-Kokitsi Maninis, Kieran Connell, Markus Wulfmeier, Martina Zambelli, Matt Young, Mili
Sanwalka, Mohit Shridhar, Nathan Batchelor, Sally Jesmonth, Sam Haves, Sandy H Huang, Simon
Green, Siobhan Mcloughlin, Tom Erez, Yanan Bao, Yuval Tassa and Zhicheng Wang.
We would also like to recognize the many teams across Google and Google DeepMind that
have contributed to this effort including Google Creative Lab, Legal, Marketing, Communications,
Responsibility and Safety Council, Responsible Development and Innovation, Policy, Strategy and
Operations as well as our Business and Corporate Development teams. We would like to thank everyone
on the Robotics team not explicitly mentioned above for their continued support and guidance. We
would also like to thank the Apptronik team for their support.
37


--- Page 38 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Appendix
A. Model Card
We present the model card for Gemini Robotics-ER and Gemini Robotics models (Mitchell et al., 2019)
in Table 7.
Model summary
Model architecture
Gemini Robotics-ER is a state-of-the-art vision-language-model that
enhances Gemini’s world understanding.
Gemini Robotics is a state-of-the-art vision-language-action model en-
abling general-purpose robotic manipulation on different tasks, scenes,
and across multiple robots.
Input(s)
The models take text (e.g., a question or prompt or numerical coordi-
nates) and images (e.g., robot’s scene or environment) as input.
Output(s)
Gemini Robotics-ER generates text (e.g., numerical coordinates) in
response to the input. Gemini Robotics generates text about robot
actions in response to the input.
Model Data
Training Data
Gemini Robotics-ER and Gemini Robotics were trained on datasets
comprised of images, text, and robot sensor and action data.
Data Pre-processing
The multi-stage safety and quality filtering process employs data clean-
ing and filtering methods in line with our policies. These methods
include:
• Sensitive Data Filtering: Automated techniques were used to filter
out certain personal information and other sensitive data from
text and images.
• Synthetic captions: Each image in the dataset was paired with
both original captions and synthetic captions. Synthetic captions
were generated using Gemini and FlexCap (Dwibedi et al., 2024)
models and allow the model to learn details about the image.
Further details on data pre-processing can be found in (Gemini-Team
et al., 2023).
Implementation Frameworks
Hardware
TPU v4, v5p and v6e.
Software
JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018), ML Pathways (Dean, 2021).
Evaluation
Approach
See Section 2 for Gemini Robotics-ER evaluations, Sections 3 and 4 for
Gemini Robotics evaluations, and Section 5 for Gemini Robotics Safety
evaluations.
38


--- Page 39 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Results
See Section 2 for Gemini Robotics-ER evaluations, Sections 3 and 4 for
Gemini Robotics evaluations, and Section 5 for Gemini Robotics Safety
evaluations.
Model Usage & Limitations
Ethical Considerations
& Risks
Previous impact assessment and risk analysis work as discussed
in (Gemini-Team et al., 2023) and references therein remain rele-
vant to Gemini Robotics. See Section 5 for information on responsible
development and safety mitigations.
Table 7 | Gemini Robotics model card
B. Embodied Reasoning with Gemini 2.0
B.1. Spatial Understanding Conventions and Prompts
2D bounding boxes are represented as 𝑦0, 𝑥0, 𝑦1, 𝑥1, where 𝑦is the vertical image axis, 𝑥is the
horizontal image axis, 𝑦0, 𝑥0 is the top left corner of a box, and 𝑦1, 𝑥1 the bottom right corner. The
range of these 𝑥−𝑦coordinates is normalized as integers between 0 and 1000.
Points are represented as 𝑦, 𝑥tuples. Similar to 2D object detection, Gemini 2.0 can point to any
object described by open-vocabulary expressions. We prompt Gemini 2.0 to generate its answer as a
JSON list of dicts, each with these keys: “in_frame”, “point”, and “label”.
3D bounding boxes are represented as 𝑥, 𝑦, 𝑧, 𝑤, ℎ, 𝑙, 𝑟1, 𝑟2, 𝑟3 where 𝑟1, 𝑟2, and 𝑟3 are Euler angles
where each value is represented as a short sequence of text tokens truncated to 2-decimal numbers.
Top-down grasp points are represented as 𝑦, 𝑥, and a rotation angle 𝜃. The rotation angle is
represented in integer degrees between −90 and 90, and 0 is where the gripper fingers are aligned
with the horizontal image axis.
B.2. Pointing Benchmark Comparisons
Performance is measured as the percentage of points falling within the ground truth mask. Since
Pixmo-Point lacks mask annotations, we approximate them with circular masks of radius 25 around
ground truth points. To ensure a fair comparison, we provide instruction-based formatting for GPT
and Claude and parse Molmo’s XML output accordingly.
B.3. ALOHA 2 Zero and Few-Shot Control
B.3.1. ALOHA 2 Robot Task Descriptions
A standard ALOHA 2 cell (Team et al., 2024; Zhao et al., 2025) is initialized with an arm on each side
of a 0.8m by 0.4m table. For each task additional objects are added to the scene with a randomized
initial position and orientation within a given range appropriate for each task.
B.3.1.1
Simulated tasks
See Fig. 30 for example initial conditions of simulated task environments.
39


--- Page 40 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 30 | Environments used for simulated ALOHA 2 tasks. Top-left: Banana in Bowl, and Banana Handover.
Top-middle: Banana Lift and Fruit Bowl. Top-right: Mug on Plate. Bottom-left: Bowl on Rack. Bottom-right:
Pack Toy.
Figure 31 | Environments used for real ALOHA 2 tasks. From left to right: Banana Handover, Fold Dress, and
Wiping.
• Banana Lift: The robot must lift a banana 20cm off of the table. The banana can appear
anywhere on the table and at any orientation. There are also distractor objects: a bowl, a lemon,
and a plum. This is the same environment used in the Fruit Bowl task.
• Banana in Bowl: The robot must lift a banana off of the table and place it in a bowl. The
banana appears on the right side of the table and oriented roughly horizontally with a 0.1𝜋
range. This is the same environment used in Banana Handover.
• Banana Handover: The robot must lift a banana off of the table with one arm, give it other
arm, and then place it in a bowl.
• Mug on Plate: The robot must lift a mug off of the table and place it on a plate.
• Bowl on Rack: The robot must lift a bowl off of the table and place it on a dish rack.
• Fruit Bowl: The robot must lift 3 different pieces of fruit (banana, plum, and lemon) off the
table and put them in a bowl.
• Pack Toy: The robot must lift a toy lion off the table and place it into a large box. The robot
must then use each arm to close the flaps on the box.
B.3.1.2
Real-world tasks
See Fig. 31 for example initial conditions of real task environments.
• Banana Handover: The robot must lift a banana off of the table with one arm, hand it over to
the other arm, and then place it in the bowl. Success is defined as the banana inside the bowl.
40


--- Page 41 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
• Fold Dress: Given a dress flattened on the table, the robot must make several folds into a
four-part rectangle. Success is defined as the dress folded in four parts.
• Wiping: Given a sponge and a stain on the table, the robot must pick up the sponge and clean
up the stain. Success is defined as the entire stain surface being covered by the sponge.
B.3.2. System Prompt for Gemini during zero-shot robot control
Note: The following prompt remains the same across tasks. We only change the instruction per task.
You are a helpful bi-arm robot - one arm is mounted on the left side of a rectangular table and
one arm is mounted on the right side. The left arm will show at the left most side of the image and
the right arm will show at the right most side of the image. Each arm has a parallel gripper with two
fingers. You will be asked to perform different tasks that involve interacting with the objects in the
workspace. You are provided with a robot API to execute commands on the robot to complete the
task.
The procedure to perform a task is as follows:
1. Receive instruction. The user will provide a task instruction along with an initial image of the
workspace area from the overhead camera, initial robot state and initial scene objects.
2. Describe the scene. Mention where the objects are located on the table.
3. Steps Planning. Think about the best approach to execute the task provided the object locations,
object dimensions, robot embodiment constraints and direction guidelines provided below. Write
down all of the steps you need to follow in detail to execute the task successfully with the robot.
Each step should be as concise as possible and should contain a description of how the scene
should look like after executing the step in order to move forward to next steps.
4. Steps Execution. After enumerating all the steps, write python code to execute each step for
one step at a time on the robot using the API provided above. For each step:
1. Rewrite a summary of the goal for the given step.
2. When grasping an object, follow the grasping guidelines provided below.
3. When moving a gripper to a specific position and orientation, make sure the target position
is reachable according to the robot physical constraints described below and that there is
enough clearance between other objects (including other gripper arms) to avoid collisions.
Describe your thought process.
4. Write code to execute the given step on the robot using the api, this includes writing code
to compute cartesian trajectories.
5. The code will be executed and you will be provided with a new image, the status of the
execution and any error information that might have resulted from the code execution
including anything printed to I/O. Summarize what the robot did as it executed the code
based on the new image, robot state and initial scene objects as well as any execution
error or user feedback.
6. Compare your summary of what the robot did during code execution with the objective
for that particular step. If they align, continue with writing code. If not, re-plan and write
new steps to execute the task successfully. Consider the current state of the system when
replanning (e.g., if a grasp failed the grippers may need to be reopened before attempting
again).
7. Repeat steps 4.1-4.6 until you have completed all steps successfully.
In the world frame, front/back is along the y axis, left/right is along the x axis and up/down is
along the z axis with following directions: Positive x: Towards the right. Negative x: Towards the left.
41


--- Page 42 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Positive y: Towards front of the table. Negative y: Towards back of the table. Positive z: Up, towards
the ceiling. Negative z: Down, towards the floor. The world origin [0, 0, 0] is at the center of the
workspace, between the two arms, at the center of the table and on the surface of the table.
Robot Physical Constraints and Table Workspace Area:
1. Gripper has two parallel 0.09m fingers that can open up to 0.065m.
2. The table area is 0.80 meters wide (from left to right) and 0.40 meters long (from front to back).
The center of the table belongs to the (0, 0, 0) coordinate in world frame.
3. The left arm can only reach the left side of the table which belongs to x coordinates greater
than -0.40 meters but less than 0.1 meters.
4. The right arm can only reach the right side of the table which belongs to x coordinates greater
than -0.1 meters but less than 0.40 meters.
Grasp Guidelines:
1. Always use the get_grasp_position_and_euler_orientation function to get the grasp po-
sition and euler orientation for a specific object and gripper. This grasp pose must be used to
compute a pre-grasp pose.
2. Clear visibility: Make sure the robot arms are not blocking the visibility of the object. If the
arms are blocking the object, move the arms out of the way before attempting the grasp.
3. Reachability: Ensuring the gripper can reach the desired grasp points on the object given its
arm length and workspace limits.
4. Make sure the gripper is open before going to the grasp pose.
5. Successful grasp: A successful grasp will be reflected in the distance_between_fingers state
of the robot. After closing the gripper the value of distance_between_fingers should be
greater than 0 if the grippers are successfully enclosing the object.
Robot API Interface Documentation:
class Gripper(enum.Enum):
LEFT = "left_gripper"
RIGHT = "right_gripper"
class RealAlohaRobotApi:
"""Interface for interacting with the AlohaSim robot in CodeGen with a grasp pose prediction
model.
"""
def close_gripper(self, gripper: __main__.Gripper = <Gripper.LEFT: ’left_gripper’>):
"""Closes the given gripper.
"""
def detect_objects(self, object_names):
"""Use this function to detect the XYZ centroid and size of objects in the scene.
The size is calculated based on a z-aligned bounding box where width is placed along the x-
axis, depth is placed along the y-axis and height is placed along the z-axis.
Args:
object_names: This is a list of strings containing the object names. The object names can
include a brief description of the object or object part.
Returns:
A dictionary with the keys being the detection labels and the values being another
dictionary containing the XYZ ‘position‘ and ‘size‘ of the detected objects.
42


--- Page 43 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Note that the detection labels are usually the same as object names but not always.
"""
def get_grasp_position_and_euler_orientation(self, gripper: __main__.Gripper, object_name: str,
part_name: str = ’middle’) -> tuple[numpy.ndarray, numpy.ndarray]:
"""Returns the grasp position and orientation for the given object and gripper. Make sure the
robot arms are out of the way before calling this function to ensure a good grasp.
Args:
gripper: The gripper to use to grasp the object.
object_name: The name of the object to grasp.
part_name: The name of the part of the object to grasp. By default, this is ’middle’.
Returns:
The grasp position and orientation for the given object and gripper.
"""
def get_image(self):
"""Returns the image of the current camera.
"""
def move_gripper_to(self, position, orientation, gripper: __main__.Gripper = <Gripper.RIGHT: ’
right_gripper’>):
"""Moves the gripper to the given position and orientation.
Args:
gripper: The gripper to move.
position: The target position to move the gripper to in XYZ.
orientation: The the target orientation euler angles (roll, pitch, yaw) in degrees.
"""
def move_gripper_to_safe_position(self, gripper: __main__.Gripper) -> bool:
"""Moves the given gripper to a safe position out of the table area.
This is also its initial homeposition.
Args:
gripper: The gripper to move. Use ’LEFT’ or ’RIGHT’ to specify the gripper.
Returns:
True if the gripper was moved successfully, False otherwise.
"""
def open_gripper(self, gripper: __main__.Gripper = <Gripper.LEFT: ’left_gripper’>):
"""Opens the given gripper.
"""
def reset(self):
"""Resets the robot to its initial state.
"""
def state_description(self) -> str:
"""Returns a text description of the current robot state.
"""
Assume the Robot API object is already available as robot.
Instructions: Pick up the banana and place it in the bowl. You may need to handover the banana
from one arm to the other if the initial arm picking the banana cannot reach the bowl. After picking
43


--- Page 44 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
the banana with one arm, you can handover the banana by first placing it carefully on the table
surface and then using the other arm to pick it up. The placing position must be on the table, as far as
possible from other objects but absolutely within the reachable table area of the other arm. Make sure
to move the picking arm out of the way before the receiving arm moves towards grasping the object.
B.3.3. Sample output from Gemini during zero-shot robot control
Fig. 32 and Fig. 33 show output samples from Gemini doing planning and grasping, whilst completing
robot control tasks.
1. **Open both grippers:** Ensure both grippers are open to prepare for grasping.
2. **Grasp the banana with the right gripper:**
    *   Detect the banana's position and orientation.
    *   Calculate a pre-grasp position slightly above the banana.
    *   Move the right gripper to the pre-grasp position.
    *   Move the right gripper to the grasp position.
    *   Close the right gripper.
3. **Move the banana to a handover position:** If the right arm cannot reach the bowl, move the 
banana to a handover position closer to the left arm. This position should be clear of the bowl.
4. **Open the right gripper:** Release the banana at the handover position.
5. **Move the right gripper out of the way:** Move the right gripper to a safe position to
allow the left gripper to grasp the banana.
6. **Grasp the banana with the left gripper:**
    *   Detect the banana's position and orientation.
    *   Calculate a pre-grasp position slightly above the banana.
    *   Move the left gripper to the pre-grasp position.
    *   Move the left gripper to the grasp position.
    *   Close the left gripper.
7. **Move the banana over the bowl:**
    *   Detect the bowl's position.
    *   Move the left gripper to a position above the bowl.
8. **Release the banana into the bowl:** Open the left gripper to drop the banana into the bowl.
9. **Move the left gripper to a safe position:** Move the left gripper to a safe position.
Figure 32 | Example of planning by Gemini whilst carrying out a robot control task.
44


--- Page 45 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
‭**Step 2: Grasp banana with left gripper**‬
‭*   **Goal:** Move the left gripper to the banana's grasp position and close the gripper.‬
‭*   **Code:**‬
‭```python‬
‭banana_name = "banana"‬
‭grasp_position, grasp_orientation = robot.get_grasp_position_and_euler_orientation(gripper=Gripper.LEFT,‬
‭object_name=banana_name)‬
‭robot.move_gripper_to(position=grasp_position, orientation=grasp_orientation, gripper=Gripper.LEFT)‬
‭robot.close_gripper(gripper=Gripper.LEFT)‬
‭```‬
‭grasp position:[-0.21401928  0.03974604 -0.00504461]‬
‭grasp orientation:[79.0, 90.0, 0.0]‬
‭Robot State:‬
‭{‬
‭"right_gripper": {‬
‭"position": [0.17, -0.02, 0.35],‬
‭"orientation": [-0.44, -5.54, 179.96],‬
‭"distance_between_fingers_cm": 1.8,‬
‭"commanded_state": "open"‬
‭},‬
‭"left_gripper": {‬
‭"position": [-0.22, 0.04, 0.04],‬
‭"orientation": [-94.04, 89.29, -172.58],‬
‭"distance_between_fingers_cm": 0.94,‬
‭"commanded_state": "closed"‬
‭}‬
‭}‬
‭*   **Summary:** The left gripper moved to the grasp position of the banana and closed. The‬
‭`distance_between_fingers_cm` is 0.94, which is greater than 0, indicating a successful grasp.‬
‭*   **Comparison:** The goal was to grasp the banana with the left gripper, and the robot state confirms this.‬
‭**Step 3: Lift banana with left gripper**‬
‭*   **Goal:** Raise the left gripper with the banana to avoid collision.‬
‭*   **Code:**‬
‭```python‬
‭current_position = robot.state_description()‬
‭robot.move_gripper_to(position=[grasp_position[0], grasp_position[1], 0.1], orientation=grasp_orientation,‬
‭gripper=Gripper.LEFT)‬
‭```‬
‭* environment output not shown for brevity *‬
‭*   **Summary:** The left gripper moved upwards to a z-coordinate of 0.1 while maintaining the same x, y and‬
‭orientation. The robot state confirms this.‬
Figure 33 | Example of grasping and lifting by Gemini whilst carrying out a robot control task. Output is by
Gemini except for the environment feedback and “* environment output not shown for brevity *” (shown in
gray). Other colors refer to the following: blue — planning; orange — code; green — analysis or discussion.
45


--- Page 46 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
```python
# Step 4: Close the left gripper.
# ----------------------------
# 4.1. Goal: Close the left gripper to grasp the banana.
# 4.2. Grasping: Close the gripper to grasp the banana.
# 4.3. No trajectory needed.
robot.close_gripper(gripper='LEFT')
```
# Robot State:
LEFT: position: [-0.33  0.2   0.02], orientation:  [153.67  88.78  75.54], distance_between_fingers_meters: 0.0, 
commanded_state: closed
RIGHT: position: [ 0.17 -0.02  0.3 ], orientation:  [-2.0e-02 -1.3e-01 -1.8e+02], distance_between_fingers_meters: 
0.0, commanded_state: closed
The left gripper closed, but the distance between fingers is 0.0, which means the grasp failed.
I need to re-plan the grasp. I will move the gripper slightly above the banana and try grasping again.
*intermediate steps not shown for brevity*
# Robot State:
LEFT: position: [-0.31  0.16  0.01], orientation:  [ 139.93   88.51 -131.03], distance_between_fingers_meters: 0.04, 
commanded_state: closed
RIGHT: position: [ 0.17 -0.02  0.3 ], orientation:  [-2.0e-02 -1.1e-01 -1.8e+02], distance_between_fingers_meters: 
0.0, commanded_state: closed
The left gripper closed and the distance between fingers is 0.04, which means the grasp was successful.
Figure 34 | Examples of error detection and retrying by Gemini when carrying out a robot control task. Output
is by Gemini except for the environment output and “*intermediate steps not shown for brevity*” (shown in
gray). Other colors refer to the following: orange — code; green — analysis or discussion.
46


--- Page 47 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
C. Robot Actions with Gemini Robotics
C.1. Evaluation procedure
Real world robotics performance metrics (e.g., success rate and/or progress) can be noisy, because
conducting experiments on robots is subject to constantly changing environments and deteriorating
hardware. To address these concerns, each evaluation task (defined by an instruction and initial
conditions) is run with multiple trials. These trials are repeated for each of the target models (e.g.,
Gemini Robotics and baselines). To reduce bias from environmental factors (e.g., network latency,
wear-and-tear of motors, lighting changes, etc.) and eliminate operator bias, the target models are
evaluated for each trial back-to-back in random order (A/B testing). This allows us to use a pairwise
t-test to more robustly evaluate improvements over baselines.
Each evaluation is marked either success or failure (0 for failure, 1 for full completion). Further-
more, we also use a continuous metric, progress score, between 0 and 1, reflecting the proportion of
the task completed. Given the difficulty of some of our tasks — long-horizon, highly dexterous, and
in challenging generalization scenarios — reporting the continuous progress metric offers another
insightful metric for comparing model performance.
C.1.1. Evaluation tasks to test out-of-the-box in-distribution performance
All of the evaluation tasks used for Figure 16 can be found in Figure 35, including instruction and an
example of initial scene configuration.
47


--- Page 48 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Take out the bottle from  the  
right side pocket of the bag.
Close the laptop.
Wrap the wire around the 
headphone.
Hang the loofah on the black 
stand.
Unfold the mat.
Stack the top left measuring 
cup on the bottom left 
measuring cup.
Pour the pulses into the pink 
bowl from the yellow bowl.
Pick up the black cap of the 
black marker.
Place the pearl ornament at 
the left side of the table by the 
left arm.
Open the pink folder.
Open the eye glasses case.
Insert the red triangular block 
into the bottom left slot of the 
shape board.
Place the grater in the right 
compartment of the organizer.
Fold the pink cloth from top to 
bottom vertically.
Fold the beige pants from left 
to right.
Put the gray dress right sleeve 
on hanger.
Fold the blue t-shirt from 
bottom to top.
Pick the shoe lace from the 
center of the table.
Flatten the blue shirt.
Insert the lace end into the 
right hole from the bottom of 
the shoe.
Figure 35 | Initial scene configuration and instructions used for our out-of-the-box evaluation in Figure 16.
48


--- Page 49 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
C.1.2. Evaluation tasks for instruction following analysis
Figure 36 shows the 5 scenes and the 25 instructions used to assess Gemini Robotics instruction
following in Section 3.3.
Put the blue bar 
in the right side 
of the grey 
container.
Put the banana in 
the bottom of the 
brown bag.
Place the blue 
bar below the 
brown lunch bag.
Move left red 
grapes to the top 
left corner of the 
table.
Put the brown 
bar in the orange 
lunch bag.
Pick up the 
toothpaste and 
place it on the 
blue towel.
Pick up the green 
scrub and place 
it in the bottom 
compartment of 
the caddy.
Place the blue 
towel in the 
bottom 
compartment of 
the caddy.
Place the 
toothpaste in the 
bottom 
compartment of 
the caddy.
Pick up the 
deodorant and 
place it to the left 
of the pink 
sponge.
Place the blue 
clip to the right 
of the yellow 
sticky notes.
Pick up the 
calculator and 
place it on the 
right side of the 
table.
Place the blue 
clip in the top 
black container.
Pick up the blue 
sticky notes and 
place it in the top 
black container.
Pick up the 
scissors and 
place it on the 
bottom of the 
table.
Pick the bottom 
ring and place it 
on the left side of 
the table.
Pick up the 
calculator and 
place it on the 
top right of the 
table.
Pick up the pink 
stapler and place 
it on the black 
organizer.
Pick up black 
marker and place 
it on pink 
organizer.
Pick up sticky 
notes and place 
on black 
organizer.
Put the banana in 
the top bowl.
Put the mango in 
the red bowl.
Place the top 
bowl on the 
bottom bowl.
Place grapes 
next to the 
bottom bread.
Put the grapes 
and the mango in 
the same bowl.
Figure 36 | Examples of the initial scene configurations and instructions used for the instruction following
analysis in Section 3.3.
49


--- Page 50 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
C.1.3. Evaluation tasks for generalization study
In this Section we describe all the tasks and variations we used for the generalization results of Figure
21.
C.1.3.1
Visual and Instruction generalization tasks
We consider 4 different tasks in a scene including objects to be packed in a lunch bag. In order to
assess instruction generalization, we ask the robot to solve the task using different instructions by
1) adding typos, 2) translating the instruction to a different language (Spanish), 3) rephrasing the
instruction, and 4) adding descriptive modifiers. See Figure 37 for detailed examples.
Put the top left 
green grapes into 
the right 
compartment of 
the grey box.
Put the top lft 
gren grapes into 
the rht 
comprtment of 
the grey bx.
Coloque las uvas 
verdes de la 
parte superior 
izquierda en el 
compartimento 
derecho de la 
caja gris.
Pick up the green 
grapes and place 
them in the 
largest container 
of the grey box.
Pick the green 
grapes (top left) 
and put them in 
the grey box 
(right 
compartment).
Put the brown 
bar in the top 
pocket of the 
lunch bag.
Put the brwn bar 
into the top pckt 
of the lnch bag.
Coloque la barra 
marrón en el 
bolsillo superior 
de la bolsa del 
almuerzo.
Put the brown 
bar into the lunch 
bag’s top pocket.
Pack the brown 
bar in the top of 
the lunch bag.
Put the top right 
red grapes into 
the top left 
compartment of 
the grey box.
Put the top rht rd 
grapes into the 
op lft 
compartmnt of th 
gry box.
Coloque las uvas 
rojas de la parte 
superior derecha 
en el 
compartimento 
superior 
izquierdo de la 
caja gris.
Pick up the top 
right red grapes 
and place them 
in the top left 
container of the 
grey box.
Pick the red 
grapes (top right) 
and put them in 
the grey box (top 
left 
compartment).
Unzip the lunch 
bag completely.
Uzip the luch bag 
completly.
Abra 
completamente 
la cremallera de 
la bolsa del 
almuerzo.
Open the lunch 
bag.
Unzip the bag.
Figure 37 | Examples of initial scene configurations and instructions used for instruction generalization
evaluations in in Section 3.4.
We then test our model ability to generalize to visual variations of the scene by 1) adding novel
distractor objects, 2) by replacing the background (wooden tabletop) with a blue-white cloth, and 3)
by changing the lighting of the scene. All these variations are not captured in the training data. See
Figure 38 for detailed examples.
50


--- Page 51 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
In-distribution
Distractors
Different 
background
Different lighting 
conditions
Put the top left green grapes into the right compartment of the grey box.
Put the brown bar in the top pocket of the lunch bag.
Put the top right red grapes into the top left compartment of the grey box.
Unzip the lunch bag completely.
Figure 38 | Examples of initial scene configurations and instructions used for visual generalization evaluations
in Section 3.4.
C.1.3.2
Action generalization tasks
We consider 6 different tasks across multiple scenes. We analyse action generalization across two
different axes: 1) OOD object positions and 2) different target object instance with different color,
shape or size. See Figure 39 for details.
C.1.3.3
Task and progress definition
In Figure 21, we reported Progress Score, the continuous metric that captures the nuances of the
performance beyond the success rate of the binary categorization between success and failure. Here
is the definition of progress for each task.
• “Put the top left green grapes into the right compartment of the grey box.” This task
requires the robot to pick up the green grapes and drop them in the right compartment of the
grey bento box.
– 1.0 : if the grapes are placed in the correct compartment;
51


--- Page 52 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
In-distribution
Different initial positions
In-distribution
New object instance
Put the legos into the lego bag.
Tighten the cap of the water bottle.
Open the bottom drawer of the jewelry box.
Fold the dress.
Put banana in bowl with handover.
Unzip the lunch bag completely.
Figure 39 | Examples of initial scene configurations and instructions used for action generalization evaluations
in Section 3.4.
– 0.5 : if the grapes are picked and placed in the wrong compartment;
– 0.25: if the grapes are picked but never placed;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Put the brown bar in the top pocket of the lunch bag.” This task requires the robot to pick
up the brown bar and place it in the top pocket of the lunch bag.
– 1.0 : if the brown bar is placed in the lunch bag’s top pocket;
– 0.75: if the brown bar is placed in the lunch bag (either pocket);
– 0.25: if the robot picks up the brown bar;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Put the top right red grapes into the top left compartment of the grey box.” This task
requires the robot to pick up the red grapes and drop them in the top-left compartment of the
grey bento box.
– 1.0 : if the grapes are placed in the correct compartment;
– 0.5 : if the grapes are picked and placed in the wrong compartment;
– 0.25: if the grapes are picked but never placed;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Unzip the lunch bag completely.” This task requires the robot to fully unzip the lunch bag.
– 1.0 : if the robot fully unzips the lunch bag;
– 0.5 : if the robot successfully grasps the zipper and partially un-zips it;
– 0.25: if the robot successfully identifies and grasps the zipper tag;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
52


--- Page 53 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rates
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Rephrasing
Typo
New language
Descriptive
0.79
0.39
0.57
0.14
0.43
0.43
0.08
0.11
0.14
0.12
0.0
0.14
0.50
0.19
0.43
0.14
0.0
0.14
Instruction Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rates
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Distractors
New background
Lighting
0.79
0.50
0.42
0.57
0.57
0.08
0.08
0.08
0.14
0.0
0.50
0.23
0.25
0.14
0.29
Visual Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rates
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
New object instance
Different position
 
0.67
0.53
0.29
0.87
0.22
0.06
0.0
0.13
0.30
0.17
0.14
0.20
Action Generalization
Gemini Robotics
0 re-implement
Multi-task diffusion
Figure 40 | Breakdown of Gemini Robotics generalization capabilities with success rate. Gemini Robotics
consistently outperforms the baselines and handles all three types of variations more effectively. Notably,
even when baselines experience catastrophic failure — such as with instructions in a new language or visual
variations of the target object, Gemini Robotics still achieves non-zero performance.
• “Put the legos into the lego bag.” This task requires the robot to pick up 4 lego blocks
(one-by-one) and then place them into the lego bag.
– 1.0 : if all 4 blocks are placed in the bag;
– 0.75: if 3 blocks are placed in the bag;
– 0.50: if 2 blocks are placed in the bag;
– 0.25: if 1 block is placed in the bag;
– 0.0 : if no blocks are in the bag.
• “Tighten the cap of the water bottle.” This task requires the robot to tighten the caps of
various (plastic and metal) bottles.
– 1.0 : if the robot has tightened the cap by at least one full rotation;
– 0.5 : if the robot begins to tighten the cap but does not finish one rotation;
– 0.1 : if the robot grips the water bottle’s cap;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Open the bottom drawer of the jewelry box.” This task requires the robot to open the bottom
drawer of the jewelry box.
– 1.0 : if the robot opens the bottom drawer of the jewelry box;
– 0.25: if the robot grasps the bottom drawer of the jewelry box;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Fold the dress.” This task requires the robot to fold different dresses.
– 1.0 : if the dress is folded with all the correct folds;
– 0.25: if the robot gets at least one (even messy) fold;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Put banana in bowl with handover.” This task requires the robot to pick up the banana with
one arm, hand it over to the other arm, and then place it in the bowl.
53


--- Page 54 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
– 1.0 : if the robot picks the banana, hands it over, and places it in the bowl;
– 0.5 : if the robot picks the banana and hands it over, or if the robot places the banana in
the bowl without handing it over;
– 0.25: if the robot picks the banana and then drops it;
– 0.0 : if the robot does not pick the banana.
For completeness, we also include the plot of success rate below (Figure 40).
C.2. Baselines
Our Gemini Robotics model is compared against three baselines that represent the state-of-the-art in
vision-language-action models, multi-task learning and dexterity, respectively.
𝜋0 re-implement: This is a faithful re-implementation, to the best of our knowledge, of 𝜋0, an
open-weights dexterous VLA model (Black et al., 2024) consisting of a diffusion transformer “action
expert” policy that attends to latents from an underlying PaliGemma VLM (Beyer et al., 2024).
The 𝜋0 model architecture and weights have been publicly released by the authors (openpi). We
re-implement this model to be compatible with our scalable training infrastructure to consume our
diverse actions training data. We train this model on the same data mixture as Gemini Robotics. On
internal evaluations, we find that our 𝜋0 re-implement trained on our data mixture outperforms the 𝜋0
openpi checkpoint out of the box, as well as 𝜋0 openpi fine-tuned for individual tasks (Fig. 41); hence,
we report numbers from our re-implementation throughout the paper. In Section 3, we use a batch
size of 2048 and train it for 300K steps. In Section 4, we fine-tune from the checkpoint from Section 3,
using the same batch size for 50K steps. We also carefully select the checkpoints for evaluation to
ensure fair comparisons.
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Put container in lunch-box
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Zip lunch-box
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Draw card
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Play card
Gemini Robotics (Specialist)
0 re-implement (Specialist)
0 openpi (Specialist)
Multi-task diffusion (Specialist)
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Pour lettuce
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Salad dressing
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Seal container
0
50
100
Number of Demos
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
Success Rate
Origami first fold
Figure 41 | Fast adaptation results (Section 4.3) with the 𝜋0 openpi baseline. The results are consistent between
𝜋0 openpi and 𝜋0 re-implement in 5 out of 8 tasks, while our own implementation achieves better results for the
other 3 tasks.
Multi-task diffusion: This is a diffusion policy architecture inspired by ALOHA Unleashed (Zhao
et al., 2025) and modified to be task-conditioned. We add a CLIP text encoder (Radford et al., 2021)
to encode the natural language task string, while the original model of Aloha Unleashed only works in
single-task settings. In Section 3, we use a batch size of 512 and train it for 2M steps on the identical
action data mixture. For experiments in Section 4, we start from the checkpoint from Section 3,
54


--- Page 55 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
use the same batch size and fine-tune it for 1M steps. The batch size, training steps and evaluation
checkpoints are empirically determined to optimize the model’s final performance.
Single-task diffusion: This is the same diffusion policy architecture from ALOHA Unleashed (Zhao
et al., 2025). We do not include this baseline in Section 3 because it is not designed for multi-task
learning. For all our specialization and adaptation experiments in Section 4, we initialize the model
from scratch, use a batch size of 512 and train it for 2M steps. Similarly, the batch size, training steps
and evaluation checkpoints are empirically determined to optimize the model’s final performance.
D. Specializing and Adapting Gemini Robotics for Dexterity, Reasoning, and
New Embodiments
D.1. Long-horizon dexterity
D.1.1. Evaluation procedure
These evaluations primarily focus on in-distribution performance, with defined initial conditions for
each task. We conduct 20 trials per task per model. The spelling game task is the only exception,
where performance is analysed over 12 trials, including both in-distribution results (6 trials for printed
picture cards) and out-of-distribution results (6 trials for hand-drawn sketches).
In Section 4.1, we report success rates for each of the six dexterous tasks. Here, we additionally
show the progress scores for each task in Figure 42 to get a more fine-grained picture of the differences
between the performance of Gemini Robotics and the baseline models.
Scoop nuts
Lunch-box
Playing cards
Spelling game
Place peas
Origami
Tasks
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Progress
1.00
1.00
0.95
0.89
0.78
0.55
0.90
0.21
0.54
0.0
0.68
0.23
0.65
0.39
0.79
0.17
0.38
0.19
0.65
0.30
0.90
0.0
0.85
0.33
Gemini Robotics (Specialist)
0 re-implement (Specialist)
Multi-task diffusion (Specialist)
Single task diffusion
Figure 42 | Average task progress score on new, dexterous and long-horizon tasks after specialization. This
Figure complements Figure 23. The average task progress score highlights that on all tasks but Spelling game,
all methods show non-zero progress towards the completion of the tasks. However, Gemini Robotics outperforms
almost all baselines across all tasks except for the single task diffusion on the Place peas task according to this
metric.
The definition of the task can be found in Section 4.1, and below we define the progress scores
for each task:
• “Make an origami fox”
– 1.0 : if the robot fully folds the origami fox;
– 0.75: if the robot completes the first three folds;
– 0.5 : if the robot completes the first two folds;
55


--- Page 56 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
– 0.25: if the robot completes the first fold;
– 0.1 : if the robot attempts to make the first fold;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Pack a lunch-box”
– 1.0 : if the lunch-box contains all required items inside it and is fully zipped;
– 0.75: if the lunch-box contains all required items inside it: the bread inside the ziploc, an
energy bar, and the sealed container with grapes inside;
– 0.5 : if the robot transfers the zipped ziploc containing the bread into the lunch-box;
– 0.25: if the robot inserts the bread in the ziploc bag and zips the ziploc bag;
– 0.1 : if the robot inserts the bread in the ziploc bag;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Spelling board game”
– 1.0 : if the robot spells all three letters correctly;
– 0.66: if the robot spells the first two letters correctly;
– 0.33: if the robot spells the first letter correctly;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Play a game of cards”
– 1.0 : if the robot draws 3 cards, plays 1 card, and folds the remaining cards;
– 0.75: if the robot plays more than 1 card after 3 cards are drawn;
– 0.5 : if the robot draws 3 cards but fails to play any card;
– 0.25: if the robot draws 1 card;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
• “Add snap peas to salad”
– 1.0 : if the robot places at least 3 peas into the salad bowl with the tongs and then places
the tongs back on the table;
– 0.5 : if the robot places at least 1 pea into the salad bowl with the tongs;
– 0.0 : If anything else happens.
• “Add nuts to salad”
– 1.0 : if the robot scoops at least 1 scoop of nuts, adds them to the salad bowl, and places
the spoon back on the table;
– 0.5 : if the robot scoops at least 1 scoop of nuts and adds them to the salad bowl;
– 0.0 : if anything else happens.
D.2. Enhanced reasoning and generalization
D.2.1. Evaluation procedure
For the reasoning-enhanced version and the vanilla Gemini Robotics models, we perform 100 trials
across 8 different tasks, each with a unique initial scene configuration. The tasks are grouped into the
following categories, based on what capabilities they are designed to measure: One-step Reasoning,
Semantic Generalization, and Spatial Understanding.
D.2.1.1
One-step Reasoning Tasks
For tasks in this category, the instruction specifies the objects of interest and/or the manipulation
action indirectly, e.g., via their properties or affordances:
56


--- Page 57 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
• “Put the coke can into the same colored plate.” In this task the model must place the
Coca-cola can into the red plate instead of the different colored distractor plates.
• “Sort the bottom right mouse into the matching pile.” In this task the model must sort the
white toy mouse at the bottom right into a pile of white toy mice, instead of the distractor piles
of brown and grey mice; all of these mice, as well as the task of sorting objects based on their
color, are unseen in training.
• “I need to brush my teeth, pick up the correct item.” The model must retrieve a toothpaste
tube through cluttered distractors (deodorant, banana, and mango).
For these three instructions, the keywords of reasoning (same, matching, correct) are unseen in the
training dataset of robot actions.
D.2.1.2
Semantic Generalization Tasks
These tasks require semantic and visual understanding beyond the complexity of the Instruction
Generalization tasks in Section 3.4.
• “Put the Japanese fish delicacy in the lunch-box.” The model must decide that the sushi is
the target object among various distractor objects, and pack the sushi into the lunch-box.
• “Pick up the full bowl.” The model must lift up the bowl filled with dice (unseen in training)
instead of the two empty bowls (seen in training).
For these two instructions, the language describing the new semantic concept (Japanese fish delicacy,
full) are unseen in the training dataset of actions.
D.2.1.3
Spatial Understanding Tasks
These tasks require understanding concepts about relative and absolute spatial relationships.
• “Pack the smallest coke soda in the lunch-box.” The model must pack the mini-size Coca-cola
can instead of distractor full-size Coca-cola cans, and place it into the lunch-box. The language
describing the spatial concept under evaluation (smallest) is unseen in training.
• “Put the cold medicine in the bottom/top left bowl.” The model must find the cold medicine
box out of distractors (a indigestion medicine and hand sanitizer), all of which are unseen in
training, and place it into the correct bowl out of three distractor bowls placed in different
locations around the table.
For these two instructions, the language describing the new objects (coke soda, medicine) is unseen
during training, while the language describing the spatial concepts are present varying amounts in
the training distribution of action labels: smallest is unseen, top left and bottom left are rare, and left
and right are common.
D.3. Fast adaptation to new tasks
D.3.1. Tasks and evaluation details
We also study the capability of Gemini Robotics to adapt rapidly (using up to 100 episodes of
demonstration) to new tasks. We choose shorter segments sampled from the demonstrations for the
57


--- Page 58 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 43 | Tasks for fast adaptation experiments. From top to bottom: “Draw card”, “Play card”, “Pour lettuce”,
“Salad dressing”, “Seal container”, “Put container in lunch-box”, “Zip lunch-box”, and “Origami first fold”.
long-horizon dexterous tasks (Section 4.1) as the new tasks. Note that in this section, we fine-tune
the Gemini Robotics checkpoint directly from Section 3, which has never seen any demonstrations
58


--- Page 59 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
introduced in Section 4.1. This ensures that it is a fair test for adapting to new tasks. The evaluated
tasks used in Figure 26 are:
• “Draw card.” The robot must draw one card from the card dispenser machine by pushing the
green button, picking up the card, and placing the card into the left gripper.
• “Play card.” The robot must pick one of the three cards from the robot gripper and play it by
placing it on the table.
• “Pour lettuce.” The robot must pour lettuce from the green bowl into the white salad mixing
bowl.
• “Salad Dressing.” The robot must pick up the salad dressing bottle and squeeze the bottle over
the white salad mixing bowl.
• “Seal container.” The robot must close the lid of the Tupperware container by aligning and
pressing down on multiple locations of the container lid.
• “Put container in lunch-box.” The robot must pick up the Tupperware container and place it
in the open lunch-box.
• “Zip lunch-box.” The robot must fully zip up the lunch box using the zipper tag.
• “Origami first fold.” The robot must diagonally fold a square piece of construction paper into a
triangle shape.
See Fig. 43 for an illustration of each of the fast adaptation tasks.
For each of the fast adaptation tasks described above, we report curves of success rate with
increasing amount of demonstration data (5, 20 and 100 episodes) in Fig. 26 for Gemini Robotics
and baselines. We run 10 trials and calculate the average success rate to draw each point in the plot.
Given the short-horizon nature of these tasks, we do not define or report a progress score.
D.4. Adaptation to new embodiments
D.4.1. Tasks description
We test our Gemini Robotics model on the bi-arm Franka platform on 4 dexterous tasks relevant for
industrial applications (example of rollouts in Fig. 44). We describe here the tasks and define the
progress score for each of them:
• Tape hanging on a workshop wall: The robot must grasp a tape from the desk and hang it on
a hook on the workshop wall.
– 1.0: If the robot succeeds in handing the tape over to the other arm, hangs it to the correct
hook on the wall and moves the arms away;
– 0.9: If the robot succeeds in handing the tape over to the other arm and hangs it to the
correct hook on the wall;
– 0.5: If the robot succeeds in handing the tape over to the other arm;
– 0.1: If the robot picks up the tape;
– 0.0: If anything else happens.
• Plug insertion into socket: One arm must grasp a UK electric plug and insert it into a socket
to turn on a light, while the other arm must stabilize the socket.
– 1.0: If the robot successfully inserts the plug into the socket, the light turns on and the
robot moves the arms away;
– 0.9: If the robot successfully inserts the plug into the socket and the light turns on;
– 0.7: If the robot successfully aligns the plug with respect to the socket;
59


--- Page 60 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Figure 44 | Model rollouts for the 4 tasks with the bi-arm Franka robot. From top to bottom: tape hanging on
a workshop wall, plug insertion into socket, round belt assembly in NIST task board 2, timing belt assembly in
NIST task board 2.
– 0.3: If the robot successfully grasps the plug with one arm and holds the socket with the
other arm;
– 0.2: If the robot successfully grasps the plug with one arm;
– 0.0: If anything else happens.
• Round belt task of NIST Assembly Task Board 2 (ATB) (Kimble et al., 2020): The robot must
assemble a flexible industrial rubber band around a pulley system. This requires handing over
the flexible and draping rubber band, and stretching it to fit onto the pulleys.
– 1.0: If the robot inserts the rubber band on both wheels, ensures the belt is properly
inserted and moves the arms away;
– 0.9: If the robot inserts the rubber band on both wheels;
– 0.7: If the robot inserts the rubber band on one of the wheels, but fails to place the rubber
band on the other wheel;
– 0.5: If the robot manages to grasp the rubber band with both arms;
– 0.1: If the robot manages to grasp the rubber band with one arm;
– 0.0: If anything else happens.
• Timing belt task of NIST Assembly Task Board 2 (ATB) (Kimble et al., 2020): The robot
must assemble an industrial timing belt around a pulley system. This demands coordinated
bi-arm action and significant force (roughly 40N) to pull the blue handle in the correct direction,
enabling the timing belt’s secure placement on the pulley system.
– 1.0: If the robot inserts the belt on both wheels by applying enough force on the blue
60


--- Page 61 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
handle, ensures that the belt is properly inserted and moves the arms away;
– 0.9: If the robot inserts the belt on both wheels by apply enough force on the blue handle
and ensures that the belt is properly inserted;
– 0.7: If the robot inserts the belt on the large wheel, pushes the blue handle but fails to
place the belt on the small wheel;
– 0.5: If the robot just inserts the belt on the large wheel.
– 0.3: If the robot manages to grasp the belt with both arms;
– 0.1: If the robot manages to grasp the belt with one arm;
– 0.0: If anything else happens.
D.4.2. Evaluation procedure
For in distribution evaluations, we run 20 trials per task by setting up the initial conditions based
on the training data. We now describe the benchmark used to assess the visual and the action
generalization performance for our Gemini Robotics model and the single task diffusion baseline.
D.4.2.1
Visual generalization tasks
For each task, we vary the appearance of the scene by 1) adding novel distractor objects, 2) altering
the background and 3) changing the lighting condition. Example of initial scenes used for this analysis
can be found in Figure 45.
D.4.2.2
Action generalization tasks
For each task, we assess action generalization by 1) putting the objects at positions that are not seen
in the training data and 2) using different instances of objects to be manipulated that have different
appearances, shapes or physical properties. Examples of initial scenes can be found in Figure 46.
For completeness, in addition to Figure 28 where we reported the progress score, Figure 47 reports
the success rate of our model and the baseline across the tasks in the generalization benchmark.
61


--- Page 62 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Pass the tape from the left arm to the right arm and hang it on the wall.
Hold the extension lead with the left arm and insert the plug in the rightmost socket of that lead with the right arm.
Pick the orange round belt with the left arm and place it on the slide pulleys positioned on the NIST board 2.
Pick the timing belt with the left arm and place it on the timing pulleys positioned on the NIST board 2.
Figure 45 | Example tasks used for visual generalization studies when the Gemini Robotics model is adapted to
the bi-arm Franka robot.
62


--- Page 63 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
Pass the tape from the left arm to the right arm and hang it on the wall.
Hold the extension lead with the left arm and insert the plug in the rightmost socket of that lead with the right arm.
Pick the orange round belt with the left arm and place it on the slide pulleys positioned on the NIST board 2.
Pick the timing belt with the left arm and place it on the timing pulleys positioned on the NIST board 2.
Figure 46 | Example tasks used for action generalization studies when the Gemini Robotics model is adapted
to the bi-arm Franka robot.
63


--- Page 64 ---
Gemini Robotics: Bringing AI into the Physical World
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rate
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
Distractors
New background
Lighting
0.63
0.27
0.30
0.26
0.30
0.60
0.08
0.10
0.16
0.15
Visual Generalization
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Success Rate
In-distribution avg.
Out-of-distribution avg.
New object instance
Different position
0.63
0.24
0.24
0.27
0.60
0.10
0.10
0.10
Action Generalization
Gemini Robotics
Single task diffusion
Figure 47 | Breakdown of generalization metrics (success rate) when the Gemini Robotics model is adapted to
the bi-arm Franka robot. Similar to the progress score used in Fig. 28, our model significantly outperforms the
diffusion baseline.
64

